---
title: "Choose to See - Question Two"
contents: "early"
---

### Question

How do I know when I have surrendered myself to the Holy Spirit?

---

### Answer

Indeed, beloved friend, you will know that you have surrendered yourself
to the Holy Spirit because you will hear a loud bell go off, there’ll be
much confetti tossed by those in buildings above you! Hmm. Hmm. And
someone will rush up to you with a microphone and say, “You are the
winner!”

[Laughter]

And you can stand upon the stage and say,

> I’d like to thank my mother and my father.

Hm. Beloved friend, I approach your question with levity, for levity is
something that you fear. You allow the seriousness of the intellect to
interfere with the feeling of receiving the Love of God, like a gentle
peace descending upon the cells of your being. So, there’s always a
point to my seeming madness.

Now, there are indeed signs that you will come to recognize. At first
they’re slippery because you’re used to recognizing something else and
calling it the real world. You will know that you have surrendered to
the Holy Spirit, first in a brief moment here and then another moment
there, but you’ll begin to feel and sense a certain quality.  That
quality is peace, no anxiety felt throughout the cellular structures of
the body, no longing, no sense of loss and no dread, just the simplicity
of witnessing and allowing what unfolds as your experience in any given
moment — and it is totally acceptable to you, no matter what is
occurring. That seems like madness to the world, for the world says,
“Well you’re on the right track when you know what’s happening is taking
you where you know you need to be, where success is coming to you, where
comfort and safety in the world is coming to you.”

> Ah, then I must be on the right track!

No. You’re on the right track when you know that from the crown of the
head to the tips of the toes, you are at peace with yourself and the
world around you. And as you look out upon the world in that
circumstance, you see no one to blame, no one to fear, you see only
innocence. It is a palpable feeling because, you see, you believe you’re
a body and that’s how you judge things. Therefore as you learn to feel
peace through your physical beingness, as you notice that the throat
relaxes when you speak, there’s no anxiety or hurrying up of your words
where someone could be ranting and raving and you just allow them to do
so, while you are undisturbed. Rest assured, part of your mind has
relinquished you to the guidance of the Holy Spirit. Holy, because it’s
whole and not fragmented. Spirit, because it is the real world, not the
unreal world that you have made.

You will know, beloved brother, when you have surrendered wholly to the
Holy Spirit, when the thought of wanting to surrender no longer arises,
when the recognition dawns that there’s no longer an energy of seeking
within you, when no longer do you experience fear arising in your being,
when you notice its absence and realize it’s not been there for a very
long time. You will know that you have become One, through your
surrender to the Voice for God.

