---
title: "Choose to See - Question Four"
contents: "early"
---

### Question

Is Christ different from Joshua or Jeshua?

---

### Answer

This is a very worthwhile question. As you know, an entire religion has
been built up on the exclusive identification of Christ with me — that
is me as the historical Jeshua ben Joseph, or Joshua if you prefer. Use
any name you wish, it doesn’t matter to me.

Now, Christ is God’s creation. Jeshua is a name given unto a particular
manifestation of humanity called a man in physical form, a name that
separates him for utilitarian purposes from other men with different
names, and women too. Christ is pervasive and eternal. Christ is the
depth of your own beingness. Imagine it to be like an infinite ocean
from which have arisen all waves that you call individual persons,
whether male or female. Jeshua, or Joshua or Jesus, that name signifies
one of those waves.

Christ signifies that which pervades equally the depth and reality of
all minds and hearts. It is really more an energy, a quality of
beingness. It is the literal reflection or extension of the presence of
the unlimited Love of God. Christ is God’s Son, being neither male nor
female, it means merely the offspring of, that which wells up out of.
Jeshua or Joshua or Jesus became one with Christ, identified no longer
as a man but as Christ. That passageway is the same one that everyone
walks, since it is merely the return to right-mindedness. If you see
yourself only as the wave upon the infinite ocean, that’s a start; but
eventually the goal is to shift your sense of identity, so that my words
become yours:

> I and my Father are One. Not of myself do I do these things, but my
> Father does them through me.

In other words, there is nobody here but my Father.

Christ and Jeshua are different at one level. They become one and the
same as the mind or the individual that I was surrendered the illusory
perception of myself as separate from God and became identified with
only the Mind of Christ. Then, there is only Christ and the man has
disappeared, except as a temporary symbol, an anchor, a roadmap, a
direction that you can follow until you pass me by and become that ocean
yourself. And when you no longer need me in any way, shape or form, then
we will be together without interruption for all of eternity. Hm. That
should give you something to chew on.

