---
title: "Choose to See - Question Five"
contents: "early"
---

### Question

Please say more about non-physical reality.

---

### Answer

More about non-physical reality.

[Laughter]

Have I accomplished the task? [chuckles]

Beloved friend and sister, what on earth ever gave you the
thought — literally what on earth ever gave you the thought — that
physicality was real? If you ask me to speak of non-physical realities,
you’re already assuming that your physical experience is quite real. How
do you know that? Because somebody’s taught you it? Because you bang
into a wall and therefore convince yourself that it must be real? Does
this not also occur in dreams? When someone plunges a knife into your
heart in your dream, do not you feel the dread and terror of death, of
being attacked? Until suddenly you open your eyes and it may take you a
while to shake it out of your cells but you realize: that was just a
dream. Sure seemed real to me!

In the very same way, physicality seems real — until you begin to allow
correction to come to your mind, to think the insane thought that maybe
you are Christ incarnate. As the real world comes to be re-established
through your awareness and consciousness, even while the body seems to
abide and exist, you will sense it to be very limited. Just as you may
enjoy the experiences of your dream state, but when you awaken you often
feel that they were limited, there was something arising from inside of
you. As you awaken to the real world, you begin to perceive and feel the
body and physicality as something that is smaller than you that has
arisen from within your vastness, in other words that you are much more
than the body can contain.

It is therefore very appropriate not to think that you live within the
body but that the body lives within you, it arises from within you, you
contain it as a temporary teaching and learning device. Love it, embrace
it, have a great time with it, but don’t identify yourself with it.
Don’t limit your understanding of yourself to what transpires between
the crown of the head and the tips of the toes and when you extend your
arm out, don’t you think for a moment that you stop at the end of your
finger! You are pure energy, pure light, and your radiance shines
through many dimensions and you are linked to them all continually.

Non-physical ‘realities’ — there are many of them, if you wish to look
at it that way, and in fact the greater aspect of your beingness is
non-physical. Your physical experience is like a drop in the ocean. Let
that sink in. It is like a dot on a page and the whole while the
vastness of your being is moving merrily along, experiencing dimension
after dimension. And often this will creep into your awareness in your
dreams or in your meditations: it will slip through the cracks and
you’ll have what’s called an ecstatic experience. You’ll feel like you
opened, when in fact you simply allowed the openness to seep into the
smallness of your physical experience.

How then to struggle to attain experience in non-physical realms? By not
struggling, by beginning by acknowledging that you are pure Spirit, that
all worlds have arisen from within one Holy Mind, the only creation of
God. You are that vast ocean and you have merely focused all of your
attention on the physical experience you are creating. You can do that
joyfully or you can look at it as some kind of a dread disease.  It’s
your choice. Nevertheless, to experience non-physical realities, merely
loosen your fixation of attention on the body-mind and its experiences
and problems and all of the rest, and allow yourself to entertain
thoughts of your grandeur and greatness.  Rest into — through
allowing — rest into the feeling of infinity. The mind, or your place of
awareness, will begin to open bit by bit and more, more and more until
you can no longer squeeze your attention into the space and volume of a
body.

This doesn’t mean you’re going to step on it like a bug and get rid of
it! It means you’ll just embrace it as another aspect of yourself, like
the ocean embraces each and every wave, allows it its experience but
doesn’t cling to it and doesn’t try to make it last; doesn’t try to make
a wave become rigid as though if it failed to do so, nobody will ever
see the ocean. It allows the wave to rise, and then it passes away. The
ocean delights in it, but the ocean itself is never identified with any
particular wave.

That will do for now, because in what has been shared, as it is
contemplated, beloved friend, you will find that correction is coming to
certain ideas you have taken upon yourself about what non-physical
realities must be and be like, and what must occur for you to experience
them.

And again, it is a good question to have asked.

No more questions.

We will end then by saying: That’s what you think! [Laughter] There will
indeed be many questions and we will begin a process then in which some
of this time is allotted to addressing the questions which come from
this family.

Therefore in closing, know simply this: there can be no such thing as
closure to the extension of Love. Be you all therefore that which you
are this one day, don’t worry about tomorrow, there is no such thing.
This day, walk upon your earth while making a choice to delight in
perceiving yourself as awake and alive and at peace, roaming through a
countryside called the physical dimension for a very brief time. Enjoy
it, look lovingly upon it and bless it with the blessings that can come
only from the Mind of Christ within you.

Peace then be unto you always.

Amen.

