---
title: "WOK Lesson Three - Question Two"
contents: "wok"
---

### Way of Knowing, Lesson Three: Question Two

Since we do not know what our brother or sister needs, is it
possible that the Holy Spirit would guide us to say and do things that
others would react vehemently to, such as You did when You yelled and
got angry at the moneychangers? Is it true that we can’t put a lid on
how the guidance of the Holy Spirit would sound or look?

---

### Answer

By its very nature, the guidance of the Holy Spirit comes from
beyond the realm of ideas and perceptions that the mind identifies
itself with. If you think of a room in a house as being where you
normally abide, you know all the furniture, you’ve identified it all,
you’ve defined it, it’s under your control. In such a room, when you go
to access the answer for a problem or a situation that has arisen, you
can only go to what you already know.

That is what the egoic mind tries to do, even when it begins to receive
into its “room” new ideas — spiritual ideas, metaphysical ideas,
religious ideas, magical means ideas. It still is in the realm of the
known and so, when a situation comes up, it rummages around the room
looking for something it knows is already there. And it looks for what
it thinks will be the device, the word, the phrase, the action, that is
the right thing. But this is the very same thing as saying that you
already know what you need to say or do. But you do not have that
knowledge in the room in which the ego lives.

That space or channel, that we spoke of earlier, through which Love can
inform your decisions, requires that you recognize it is *beyond* the
context of the room that you’re used to living in. The mind, as you know
it — your daily mind — can operate *only* in a closed universe of what it
already knows.

Therefore, in a given situation, the Holy Spirit may have said to you,

> Take this homeless brother into your house and fix him a good meal.

And so, you’ve done it. Now, ten years later, there is another homeless
man outside your door. You rummage around in the *past*, and you see that
once you brought this person in and you fed him,

> Oh, this must be the solution because this is my “homeless person” tape.
> I just pulled it out of my dresser drawer in my egoic mind.

And then you set about to act on that and you discover that that
homeless man steals everything in your house. You’ve forgotten that
there was a time when a homeless man appeared and you didn’t know what
to do. You let go of everything you thought you knew and you asked in
prayer. This same way of *not knowing* is the ultimate state of *Knowing*.
Knowing that the egoic mind does *not* know is the source of *powerful
Knowing*.

Therefore, could it be the case that the Holy Spirit would guide you to
say or do something that might cause others to act, or react,
vehemently? Indeed, beloved friends — yes! But remember this: the Holy
Spirit’s guidance is not what is causing another to react vehemently.
Their *own mind* causes that, because they are not committed to healing
and to Love. Any reaction that is not the extension of Love must be
fear, and nothing else. Any form of attack or judgment can come only
from fear, and not from Love.

Therefore, when I felt guided to approach the moneychangers in front of
my Father’s holy temple, I was not guided to say:

> Excuse me, could we have a slight conference here? I would like to
> express a slight opinion, and of course, you’re totally free to do what
> you will, because you’re actually very powerful, rich beings and I am
> just a lonely Essene. But if you’d just give me a minute, I’d just like
> to share my thought.

No. I was guided to move with *great power*, to literally act in the ways
that some would call violence — not that I hurt anybody, but I
overturned their tables and I yelled deeply that,

> You have made my Father’s house a den of thieves!

Now, that got their attention. Why? Because the Holy Spirit saw that
those minds engaged in those activities could respond only to a powerful
energy, since they idolized power, itself. They were always putting
themselves in the position of having more power than the people who came
to the temple. So, what was required was someone who put themselves in a
greater source of power and demonstrated that the moneychangers were not
as powerful as they thought. They couldn’t imagine, before that moment,
that anybody would upset their apple cart. But through that act, it
began to create what you might call a rattle in their mind and their
being as their reality was shaken up a bit. And some of them began to
ponder what it was that they were doing with their lives.

Now, if I was attached to my own *safety*, if I was attached to being
*liked*, I would not have allowed that expression of the Holy Spirit to be
made manifest. And that is what far too many in your world tend to do:

> Oh, if I say what just came to my mind, I may not be liked. But I’m
> really committed to being liked, while pretending to live a spiritual
> life.

But indeed, beloved friend, the way of Atonement, the way of service, is
not a popularity contest.

Therefore, indeed, precious friend, understand well, you have no idea
what your brother or sister needs — from a gentle kiss on the cheek to a
swift kick in the ass. But if you are committed to Love, to innocence,
to freedom, to trust, and if you choose to access the perfect freedom of
your channel of communion with God, and not to react from the egoic
mind, then you will be guided as you need to be. And as you choose to
fulfill that purpose, you have fulfilled your own pathway into the
depths of knowing God.

So, yes, the Holy Spirit is not a namby-pamby, strawberry jelly kind of
energy. The Holy Spirit is committed to one thing: *the Atonement*. The
Atonement occurs when illusions are shattered. The Holy Spirit knows
what is required. And what is required may not always, shall we say,
meet the approval of the social world in which you find yourself. But
those afraid to rattle the cages of others are simply afraid. This means
they run their life by fear and are more committed to their comfort or
safety, which is to be committed to the insanity of the ego, and not to
the freedom of Christed Consciousness.

Does that help with that question?

*Response*: Very much so.

*Jeshua*: Now, I’m not saying there is not an art involved in that. The
degree to which you enact the suggestion of the Holy Spirit comes from
your willingness to save not one love for yourself — to be unattached,
to recognize that you are the student of the Holy Spirit. You see? Which
is, of course, the cultivation of self-love.

*Response*: I see.

*Jeshua*: Indeed. So, have you anything else, or is that sufficient for
now?

*Response*: There are no more questions for this tape, but if you want to
continue elaborating on anything, I’m sure we’d all be happy to hear
your message.

*Jeshua*: There is nothing further that we would choose to elaborate upon.
We would ask you, however — each and every one listening to this tape:
Find some way in which you allow yourself the experience of the *pleasure
of Love’s presence*. Do not let this day end, from the time you hear this
tape until the time you sleep, find a way to enjoy the pleasure of
Love’s presence.

And with that, indeed,

Amen.
