---
title: Foreword
---

<p class="center">by Alan Cohen</p>
{: .omit}

Do you believe that God would speak to you? I find it amazing that we
base all of the world religions on the transmissions of people to whom
God has spoken, but when one of our contemporaries announces that the
word of Spirit has been written in his heart, we are prone to
crossexamine him about his credentials or wonder if he is an acid
casualty from the 60’s. Jesus said, “A prophet is never accepted in his
own town,” and I believe that prophets are also rarely acknowledged in
their own time. Like great artists and musicians, most true channels of
God’s word have to wait until they are dead to be appreciated. How
willing we are to accept the truth at a distance! As Saint Augustine
petitioned the Lord, “Give me a spiritual life but not just yet!”

Abraham Heschel entitled one of his great books *God in Search of Man*.
The Great Source is always reaching out for people who are moved by the
spirit of love rather than fear. And blessed are those who are willing
to hear the teachings of peace and pass their inspirations along to the
world with courage and confidence. Would that more of us trusted the
voice of healing and honored its gifts in action.

Jayem is such a one. He is a man who has opened himself to guidance from
a higher plane, and set the principles and feeling of his revelations to
paper for others to share. Surely the words that have been given him are
for all of us.

My deep appreciation for the words of Jeshua rests in the great
gentleness, wisdom, and clarity embodied in these lessons. Jeshua is a
teacher of deep compassion, strength and uncompromising intention to
discern the illusions that bind us from the reality that heals us. He
advises us, “Ask not for salvation. Ask, instead, that you awaken from
every last trace of belief that you have ever been separate from God.”

Jeshua’s teachings embody the most important element for real spiritual
progress: practicality. The Holy Spirit’s guidance is always immediate,
usable, and efficient. Spiritual advice is valuable only to the extent
that it can be lived, and Jeshua honors the beauty of life as a
spiritual awakener. “Your moment-to-moment experience is the path to
your enlightenment” is an affirmation that can transform the most
painful experience into a gift from God. Jeshua also advises us to
“allow, allow, allow,” which opens the door for the life force of
healing to move us beyond our limited beliefs about what is good or bad.
“The way is easy, and without effort. For that which comes of effort is
of your world, and not of Me.”

In short, Jeshua is a masterful teacher with a gentle balance of wisdom
of the intellect and the heart. One could take nearly any passage in the
letters and meditate on it as a doorway to healing. Jeshua demonstrates
that simplicity and mastery are not contradictory; they are one.

There is yet another element of this gift of a book that endears it to
me even more deeply. It is Jayem’s candid recording of his personal
inner process as he began to receive the material and record and share
it. Here we are invited to follow along the journey of a man who
struggled with his role as a recorder of truth from above. “Who, me?”
was a recurrent question with which he grappled. We see his evolution
from early doubts and shyness to the knowingness that he is fulfilling
an important function that far transcends his human ego.

This element of The Jeshua Letters is especially poignant, for in it
Jayem represents all of us as we open to being channels and servants of
Spirit in our own way. There is a part of our mind that wonders if God
could actually be choosing us to perform a particular mission. We may
not be recording inspired words or teaching metaphysical principles, but
surely each of us has been chosen to bring light to the world in a
particular fashion. Our route may be music or dance or art or mothering.
The form is not as important as the fact that there is a gift each of us
has been designated to bring, and our willingness to deliver it is a key
factor in the power and scope with which we will present it.

I suggest that you approach this important volume with an attitude of
meditation rather than logical scrutiny. There is great logic of Spirit
here, but that logic is not confined to rational understanding. More
often Spirit speaks to our inner knowingness. There is a poetry here
that must not be missed. The words should be savored and absorbed in
quietude with a receptive heart. Imagine that Jeshua is speaking
directly to you, and you will find your message.

Let *The Jeshua Letters* be an inspiration for you to become a vessel of
Spirit in your own right. Jeshua would probably agree that we have had
enough students, and it is time for more masters. The purpose of this
book is not to create more dependence on entities outside ourselves, but
to turn within and there find the master we have been seeking.

My blessings are with Jayem on this great and noble gift, and to you in
receiving the great truths herein.

