---
title: "Way of Transformation: <a href='/wom/wot/l11/#question-two'>Lesson Eleven</a> - <small>Question Two</small>"
title: "WOT Lesson Eleven - Question Two"
contents: "wot"
---

### Way of Transformation, Lesson Eleven: Question Two

Could you please elaborate on the *Lineage*, and how one comes
to be in your lineage, and speak of soul groups?

---

### Answer

First of all, beloved friend, if we approve of you [Laughter]
&hellip; you might be allowed in.

Now this could, indeed, encompass an entire hour or several hours in
itself, since it is a question that deals with the very heart of the
dream of separation and the process of the baby’s awakening in the crib.

Within the dream itself, and we have used this analogy for you before,
imagine that there is a Light, a singular Light that occupies all of
space. You might think of it as a Star that fills all of space, so
there’s only the Light of the Star. For some inextricable and unseen
reason, that Star bursts into many, many Starlets, if you will, many
points of Light that now look as though there’s a multitude, but they’re
all made of the same substance: Light.

Each one of them, as that process begins, begins to see itself as unique
and separate from the other aspects of the Star that has burst. Each one
of them, then, begins to set in motion a vibration that looks like it
begins to carry it into different corners of the universe. Different
experiences begin to flow out of it, so different vibratory rates are
established, would be one way of saying it. And yet, they’re really all
occurring within the context of the One Star. And if there had not been
that One Star, none of the little points of Light could have any
existence whatsoever. They are embraced by the vibratory field of the
One Star. They never lose touch with that. They merely express what
appears to be variations on a central theme.

Now, as that process continues, eventually, time is birthed. Think about
that sentence for a while!--*Eventually*, time is birthed within the
dream. And with time comes space. And with space comes bodies. But
bodies are, first, merely condensations of energy, far subtler than what
your scientists know as atoms or quarks. And yet, they emerge, as the
vibrations continue to create out of the belief of uniqueness, that
which coalesces thought as a vibrating energy, called an *atom*. And atoms
coalesce into a multitude of forms, as you well know, since you are one.
You are a coalescing of a whole lot of atoms into the *appearance* of
solidity called the *body*, which you then call “myself.”

So, that’s kind of what occurs. And, again, we could spend many hours
discussing the process of the dream, itself--the very mechanics of the
dream, itself.

Again, please understand: *the one baby is awakening*. The dream never
really occurred; that is, the perception of the reality of the dream
never occurred. The valuing the *dream* over the *dreamer* has been a
*mistake*. And the dreaming of the dreamer never separated the dreamer
from the *power* of That One that gives forth the freedom to dream.
Understand well, then: There is no uniqueness. Everybody’s doing the
same thing. One child is awakening. And that’s all that’s going on.
That’s *all* that’s going on.

Something to think about.

