---
title: "WOT Lesson Eleven - Question Three"
contents: "wot"
---

### Way of Transformation, Lesson Eleven: Question Three

Can you speak about *specialness* and *holiness* in regard to
expressing sexuality?

---

### Answer

First, you might find this somewhat surprising, but many
associate sexuality with the body. It seems rather natural, doesn’t it?
And yet, the body is the *last level* of the expression of *true sexuality*.

What is sexuality, then? It is the very force--the creative force--of
energy itself. You could say that God, your Creator, is *pure sexual
energy*, since Love radiates at such a pure state of being (I won’t use
the word “high” because that creates the perception of a hierarchy), a
pure state of vibration, so filled with *ecstatic celebration* of Its own
nature, that Its only function and desire is to create like unto Itself.
And what comes forth from That One is Christ. *Christ is pure sexual
energy.*

As the dream began to take hold in the Mind of the one Son of God,
initially as merely a temporary play, but then began to be taken
seriously--the fall from Grace was the taking seriously of the dream —
as that vibration begins to descend into...more and more into space
and time, and then into bodies, it still seeks to express itself. But
now, fear and the belief in bodies has usurped the role of sexuality and
perceives it to be...let us say it has the value for procreating
more bodies. That’s an ego function. There’s no need to procreate more
bodies. You’ve done it long enough.

As you find yourself, then, in a state of consciousness in which at
least part of you is still holding value for the body, you will and must
feel sexual energy, because sexual energy is creative energy--that’s
all. It is the desire of Love to procreate Itself, to express Itself, to
extend Itself. Within the body’s use of sexuality, the best that
sexuality can do is to say unto another,

> I accept you as you are and I behold your innocence. I elect to allow
> this body to be utilized in such a way to express the simple Truth.

No amount of sexuality awakens the Sonship. However, it *can*, if it is
used by a mind *fully committed* as a Disciple of Christ, the body *can*
become the context through which Love helps to dissolve fears,
self-unworthiness, certain perceptions that have settled, or
crystallized, in the mind of your brother or sister. The body cannot be
used to *get* anything. Its only sane purpose is to extend or give —
that’s all.

The purpose, then, of sexuality and the body is not to seek pleasure,
but to allow transformation and healing of illusion. Because the body is
the ego’s home, and sexuality has been usurped by the ego for improper
purposes, if you will, sexuality and the body in *your* world is the place
of great power. A great catalyst can come through those energies, but
also great risk, because it stirs up the most fundamental places in the
self where the ego has tried to suppress true creativity, and tried to
take it over as its own.

Sexuality, then, ideally, in an awakened state, would be entered into
only as the result of prayerful appreciation, not of the other, but of
God, so that the body relaxes and is surrendered into the Awakened Mind,
that then allows the Holy Spirit to inform how another is touched, how
another is spoken to--always *in*formed from the perception that the mind
is seeing in the other their perfect innocence and is expressing its
acceptance, its whole acceptance of the other...not in order to *get*,
not in order to *own*, not in order to *be pleased*, not even in order *to
please*, but only *to express the innocence of Love*.

*Sexuality is God*--pure and simple. It gets convoluted in the dream as
the mind separates itself and takes on fear, begins to see the body as
real, begins to try to use the body in order to get, instead of as a
communication device for allowing the Holy Spirit or the Christ Mind to
express through it that which brings healing to the Sonship.

Can sexuality, then, be used in a sacred way? Of course! A pencil can be
used in a sacred way. It is the *mind* that decides the *purpose* and the
*value* of all things. To decide to use the sexual energies of the body
only as that through which the Holy Spirit can touch another mind and
heart and let them relax into self-acceptance, because they are seen and
appreciated for *themselves*, and not because there’s someone trying to
get something from them--this is the highest use and value that the
body’s sexuality can have. And, by the way, anything *but* that--anything
*but* that--is a decision *against Christ*, pure and simple.

Now, you mentioned the terms ‘specialness’ and ‘holiness.’ The ego would
perceive often in your world that sexuality is what creates the holiness
of the joining of two. It’s upside-down thinking. Holiness requires not
a movement--it requires a surrendering of illusion within each of two
minds. Holy relationship, whether it be having a pizza or having what
you call ‘sex’...you’re always having sex, by the way, even when
you’re eating a pizza...holiness occurs when any two beings look
within themselves; that is, they make the journey within and discover
the Truth that *there is no lack*. *Then* they join, not to get, but to
*create* the *good*, the *holy*, and the *beautiful*. That might be a pizza. It
might be a retreat center. It might be what you call, ‘making love.’ I
don’t like the term ‘making,’ by the way. That’s what the ego does. All
action, then, is *in*formed from a different place of consciousness, and
that is all.

Specialness...Specialness is nothing more than the attempt to use
relationship--with a pizza, with another body, with a brother or sister--to
*get*. That is what makes it *special*. It doesn’t mean--holiness
doesn’t mean--that everybody lives in a house all by themselves and
nobody is in a committed relationship, because in *holiness*, the Holy
Spirit *in*forms the purpose of the relationship moment to moment to
moment to moment. And if it looks like it’s appropriate for two to come
together and live under the same roof, even as man and wife...that
*form* is *secondary* to the *content* that each mind has awakened to. The
form being secondary can be easily embraced, and it can be easily
released, when the content calls for the reshuffling of the cards.
Specialness would hold that,

> No, now that we’re together, the <span class="tr_normal">form</span>
> is what matters.

The ego loves *form*, for it believes that form can give it the safety it
needs while it tries to *survive* in its *fears*. The mind awakened to
holiness is *fearless*, and only loves. And so, form has become secondary
to content.

Does that help you in that regard, then?

*Response*: Yes.

*Jeshua*: Worthwhile questions, do you think?

*Response*: Yes.

*Jeshua*: Then perhaps, if we are most fortunate, some help will come from
the answers.

In regard, then, to the latter, we would suggest unto everyone: Are you
making of the body and sexuality something ‘special’? Or can you give
even this to the sacred holiness of the purpose the Holy Spirit would
give unto it, and value it so highly that you will allow no other use of
it to enter into the sphere of your experience?--that each joining with
a friend, with a brother or sister, *is* a sexual experience; there’s *an
exchange of energy* going on. There is Life, and Life is Love, and Love
is God! Can you bring such presence to sitting across from a friend and
smiling while you’re eating a pizza, so that *you* know you’re having a
grand sexual experience? You’re in the *ecstasy* of knowing that Life is
good because goodness is of God!

And if you happen to do what is called the groping and the touching and
the stroking and the copulating and the panting and the heaving, and all
of that other thing that happens in a *certain tiny form* of expression of
sexual joining, that *your* world has made such a big thing of, can you
bring that presence together so that the two that are joining are
joining as though they are the Awakened Christ, serving no other purpose
than to bless the other with acceptance of the other?...Seeing their
perfect innocence, *celebrating* the innocence of one another, without
clinging, without possessiveness, without fear of loss. For where minds
have joined *in Love*, loss and separation is no longer possible.

So, we will, then, allow this hour to come to a close.

We come only, then, because we love you. We come only to allow that Love
to inform us, and then, stepping that down through the matrix of one
particular body-mind and set of vocal chords, so that words you can
understand with the conscious mind can be brought into your energy
field, and yet, perhaps, used *differently*, their *meanings* interpreted
differently, to assist you in releasing illusion, and allowing
correction to come to your mind. That is our sole purpose, because you
are the Sonship.

Because you are the Sonship, you are those points of Light that are of
One Substance with us. We, then, are your brothers, sisters--your
friends. And we come only because we love you. Do we have a choice?
Hardly. For your healing and awakening is *ours*. Your joining with us in
wholeness *is the healing of Christ*.

Therefore, indeed, peace be with us *all*&mdash;always. Whether in your world
or ours, within the dimensions of Creation, only Love is truly
occurring.

Amen.

