---
title: "WOK Lesson Four - Question One"
contents: "wok"
---

### Way of Knowing, Lesson Four: Question One

Jeshua, in *A Course in Miracles* you say something about the “Great
Rays of Light.” What is that about?

---

### Answer

Indeed, beloved friend, although I did not spend much time in
seeking to define it, the Great Rays of Light simply refer to the Truth
of each and every one of us. In this way, by way of metaphor, your
Creator is as the Central Sun. And out of its overflowing, Rays of Light
are cast out. And those Rays of Light are made of one substance with the
Light. And yet, something incomprehensible occurs. Each Ray of Light can
be seen, in a sense, to stand alone in its relationship to the Central
Sun. It is made of the same substance as every Great Ray of Light, and
each Ray of Light has its own pure potentiality for the creation of
experience. The Great Rays of Light, then, refer to the essence of each
and every soul. For the soul is an infinite Ray of Light — eternal,
unbounded, unborn, and undying.

But there is another level. And this simply means that the Great Rays of
Light is like the realm of ideas. Ideas each carry a certain vibration
or quality. The Great Rays of Light are the great ideas, the great
visions. For instance, *forgiveness* is a Great Ray of Light. Judgment is
a distortion of Light. *Unlimitedness* is a Great Ray of Light. Fear and
contraction and limitation are distortions of that Light. You could
think of many more: *compassion* instead of control, *trust* instead of
fear, and so on.

So Great Rays of Light also refer to the *ideas that liberate the mind*,
the ideas that are *eternal* and are found in every form of the Universal
Curriculum. Indeed, each and every one of you listening to these words
*is* a Great Ray. And the Great Rays have existed *with* that one Central
Sun throughout all of eternity. That is the Truth of your being, and it
is perhaps the most fundamental Truth that must occur as a Knowingness
within the mind:

> I AM A GREAT RAY OF LIGHT — unbounded, eternal, unborn and undying! Try as
> I will, I cannot get away from being a creator, a co-creator. So maybe it’s
> time I stopped pretending I am less than a Great Ray, and got on with
> discovering how I can let that Light shine — even in this world.

Does that help you in regard to that question?

*Response*: Yes.

