---
title: "WOK Lesson Four - Question Two"
contents: "wok"
---

### Way of Knowing, Lesson Four: Question Two

You say that everyone is Christ, yet even among highly
enlightened beings, there seems to be some difference. Does everyone
have their own *unique soul essence*?

---

### Answer

This is actually a very loaded question. For differences are the
effect of perception. That is, ten human beings looking at two
enlightened beings might see any number of differences. Some of those
differences will be a projection of their own likes and dislikes, and
they will, therefore, conclude that one enlightened being is more
enlightened than the other enlightened being, which is, of course, a
contradiction in terms.

However, it is a great paradox that while Mind is one, while Light is
one, Consciousness is one, Awareness is one, Love is one, Creation
requires differentiation. In other words, the *creation of relationship*.
It is not possible to *know* a thing, to even be aware of a thing, except
that you have an awareness that it is not *another thing*. Does that make
sense to you? If there was only one thing, that one thing would not even
be aware of itself, because it’s all there is. You become aware of
yourself by knowing how to *distinguish* yourself from a flower. Is that
not true? Indeed. Therefore, while you are made of the same substance as
the flower, there is a *distinction* in the expression of form.

Creation is *extension*. Extension is *expression*. Therefore, each Great
Ray of Light, while being of one substance — perfectly the same
substance — expresses itself, creation is extended through it, with a
*subtle nuance of difference* — a different twist, a different flavor put
on it at a very subtle level. And therefore, each being seems to express
a unique *individuation*. The *spell*, in the physical dimension of the
human mind, is that individuation means separation. It does not. Just as
many instruments make up one orchestra that creates its own unique
music, so too, do the subtle nuances of differentiation create an
orchestration that is called Creation.

Therefore, what is important here is for the mind to realize how much
*energy* it spends trying to conform itself to be what it perceives all
the other Great Rays are doing. Do you see? *Become your own individuated
Ray of Light!* You don’t do that by pushing others away. You don’t do
that by *separating* yourself. You do it by *loving yourself* and following
the *impulse* that comes through the depth of a quiet heart.

To own and embrace your individuation and to let your Light shine, so to
speak, your authenticity to shine, you actually experience greater *unity*
with the Universe than you do by trying to hide your Light under a
bushel, and then trying to show up as a personality who pleases
everybody else by conforming to the world.

You could say that *I* stood out like a sore thumb. I did not seem to fit
in with *anybody*. And yet, my experience was that the more authentically
I expressed myself, in the dimension of space and time, *the greater
depth of union with my brothers and sisters I experienced*. The more
honoring and loving of their essence I could be, the more I could
discern their essence, because I was claiming my own essence, my own
authenticity. Does that make sense for you?

It’s a rather important thing to consider. If you want to *love* in this
world, then you had better individuate yourself and love yourself so
*uniquely* that you do not conform to anybody else’s ideas. You can *agree*
with them, in order to play and create, but don’t *conform* to them — it’s
very, very different. Too many human beings suffer because they think
their life is shallow. They put all their energy into pleasing everybody
else, into showing up in just the right way so they never upset
anybody’s apple cart. And then they can’t understand why their life
feels so shallow.

*Individuate! Stand out! Shine!* Let the power of the Universe move
through you. Become the *most unique being* anybody’s ever imagined. And
when you do that, you will paradoxically feel closer to all of Life than
you ever thought possible, for you will be close to your Creator. And
when you are close to your Creator, you embrace Creation.

Does that help you in regard to that question?

*Response*: Yes.

*Jeshua*: Indeed.

Very well. And then, to each and every one of you: I
love you, that which is called Shanti Christo. I’ve said many times that
it is designed to express Christ Consciousness and to bring Christ
Consciousness to this planet in ways that have not yet been done before.
That must mean that it must operate *differently*. So it is, so it shall
be!
{: .omit}

It will remain to be seen who can *discern* the great differences that are
at operation in this adventure. For to see the differences will require
that that being who sees the differences must have changed, in order to
see at all. Just something, somewhat cryptic, to consider.
{: .omit}

And with that, indeed, beloved friends, be at peace this day. And let
your Light shine.
{: .omit}

Amen.
{: .omit}

