---
title: "WOH Lesson One - Question Two"
contents: "woh"
---

### Way of the Heart, Lesson One: Question Two

Would you please comment on the role of sexuality and sexual
expression for those of us committed to a path of spiritual evolution?

---

### Answer


Well, indeed, beloved friend, if you would be committed to a
role of genuine spirituality, you must put that which is called, I
believe, the *chastity belt* upon the body. You must separate yourself
from all those who seem to elicit little tickles of sensations in your
body. Hmm. You must banish from yourself all thought of another body
next to yours. Hmm. And if these things arise, by all means, whip
yourself! Hmm!

Beloved friend, I’ve said many times that *all events are neutral, all
experiences are neutral*. They will be, therefore, precisely what *you
choose* them to be. Sexuality ... In your world, most minds take this
to mean that there is some sort of juxtapositioning of physical bodies,
some groping of the hands, and the lips, and the tongues, and what have
you. But, indeed, this is only the outer reflection, or the symbolic
expression, of the energies being held within the mind.

It is most appropriate to say that all of Creation is an act of
sexuality. It is an expression of energy which wishes to birth forth
with *great passion — Creation!* And all relationships between two bodies,
or between the moon and the sun, between the Earth and the sky — all
forms of relationship are inherently the same. They hold within
themselves the promise, and the purpose, and the challenge of
discovering the *unity* between the two or the three or the ten. It
doesn’t matter.

Therefore, sexuality, as you understand it in your world, is only what
you will choose it to be. It does not, *necessarily*, accelerate your
awakening. And it does not, *necessarily*, impede it. What you approach
with sanctity and purity of heart, what you approach in every
relationship, what you approach from the recognition that Creation
streams forth only from the Mind of God and, therefore, the Light of
Love, the presence of Christ is present in that one before whom you
stand or, perhaps, whom you lay next to. What you approach with *sanctity*
is sanctified. What you approach with *secretness*, what you approach with
*neediness*, is demoralized and destroyed.

I would say unto you, beloved friend, you cannot transcend what is not
first embraced. Therefore, search the soul well, to see if there is any
*fear* of the great *intimacy* and *vulnerability* that can be experienced in
sexuality. Is there something in you conflicted that is not allowing you
to truly drink in the beauty of the physical form of another, to pause
over every curve and every dimple, and even every little hair upon the
body? Can you see within *this* grand Mystery? Can you pause long enough
to lose the false self? Can you *sanctify* the touching of flesh? For I
say unto you, you are the creator of what you experience.

Sexuality is a grand thing! Let no one tell you that I avoided it when I
was a man. After all, that’s the whole point. I was, after all, a man.
But I *sanctified* it to keep it holy. And sexuality can be experienced in
its totality merely by looking into the eyes of another and setting
yourself aside, and asking only to see the Face of Christ. For
sexuality, the great longing within humanity, is to find some method,
some way to transcend the *fear*, the *guilt*, the *deep contraction* which is
ego, to find some way to slip through the cracks and experience some
momentary bliss of the unity of Oneness.

But I say unto you, cultivate the Reality of your Oneness within
yourself. And, indeed, you will find that all relationships, whether you
be with a body, with a blade of grass, or with the wind that touches
your skin, will feel like a sexual experience, as long as the body
lasts. Let then, this energy *fill* you. Feel the *bliss* and the *pleasure*
and the *joy* of sensuality and sexuality. See it happening all over the
place on your planet because, without it, the planet wouldn’t even
exist.

Beloved friend, have you not ever watched little children who run naked
through the fields and play with their genitals without the least bit of
thought? They derive from it a moment of pleasure and occasionally, they
may touch each other. There is no judgment in this. There is only
innocence. And the adults look and go,

> Oh, isn’t that cute?

And some of them go,

> Oh! Oh my God! Charlie, please, cover that up! You can’t do that!

Hmm.

> Mary, put your dress back down!

Why? What is the adult afraid of, if not Life itself?

And make not of sexuality a specialness, but rather, cultivate within it
the sanctified state of consciousness in which you are deliberately
choosing to set aside yourself, to *let Christ love Christ*. Sexuality is
a rather good thing, if you choose to use the power of your beingness to
*sanctify* it, that it may be *holy*. For what is *holy* gives rise to
*wholeness*. And what is fragmented through fear, through guilt, through
neediness, through mere lust, what is thus fragmented leads to
fragmentation within one’s consciousness.

Bless sexuality. Let it become sanctified. And set aside all of those
incarnations you held as a nun in monasteries, listening to false ideas
out of someone else’s fear of the body. It is only a communication
device. What would you, therefore, choose to communicate through your
experience of sexuality?

Be at peace, beloved friend, and while the body lasts my suggestion to
you would be: Enjoy it!

