---
title: "Heaven on Earth - Question Four"
contents: "early"
---

### Question

The question has arisen about the Shanti Christo membership, and the
comment was that it was &lsquo;exclusive&rsquo; to have tapes only go to
members. And the question is&mdash;what is the question? For those not
able to manifest the means to become a member right now, whether the
Shanti Christo play in that role to open up and extend tapes to those?
What&rsquo;s your view on that?

---

### Answer

Not able to manifest the means?! Beloved friend, well have you asked the
question for it states a universality in human consciousness to deny the
simple truth of all that we&rsquo;ve said in this hour: There is never a
time that any soul is limited; it chooses to manifest and experience
exactly what it&rsquo;s experiencing.

No one has a dollar bill in their pocket unless they have chosen that
experience. There is absolutely no one who is without power to manifest
the means of manifestation if they are willing to take responsibility
for their miscreations. And they smile and say,

> Well, if I created that, I can start anew.

Exclusivity is the most interesting word in your language. Listen well.
When one views something as being exclusive, they have literally chosen
to place themselves on the outside of what they see as being exclusive.
It is not the thing in itself, whether it be an organization, a group, a
relationship. That is not what causes exclusivity.  Perception creates
experience&mdash;always, always, always. And if anyone would view
anything and judge it as being exclusive, then there is an opportunity
for them to stop and see how they literally created the feeling of being
excluded. Does that make sense for you?

Free will choice is never taken away. I have never excluded anyone from
me, and yet many, many, many have judged my work, both at the time I
walked upon this earth, as being highly exclusive. Why did you only
selected those disciples? Why are there more women than men? I
didn&rsquo;t choose them. They chose themselves. The same is true now.
Does that help you in that regard?

Uh-huh, yes.

Now. You have an interesting phenomenon in your culture where there are
many clubs that are created. Men have clubs and exclude women. Women
have clubs and exclude men. Whites have clubs and exclude blacks. Blacks
have clubs and exclude whites, and reds, and everything else on the
planet. Yet I say this unto you: all that matters is what do you truly
want. If you look upon anything occurring in your society and see it as
some form of exclusivity, stop and look and check your own energy. You
are feeling excluded from something, and that is why you have called to
yourself the experience that reflects the quality of exclusivity. There
is something you are excluding yourself from in your own consciousness.
It may not be that club: that is a symbol of the energy that is going on
within your beingness. Therefore, if one says, well, this is exclusive,
the wise student pauses, reminds themself that what they experience,
they have created. And if they are seeing exclusivity, they need to
begin to ask the clear question: what am I excluding from myself? How am
I shutting up energies of exclusion? Does that make sense to you?

Yes.

So are there any more questions? [Pause]

So to each and every one of you that has heard these words, remember
that it is a stepping stone. Begin to look at each and every one of your
days and all of your experiences, as you being the literal and only
creator of your experience. And it can be anything that you want. God
doesn&rsquo;t care. You see, God is content to create you.  What you do
with the power that She has given unto you is your business. But part of
God&rsquo;s creation is to extend complete freedom to his creations. It
doesn&rsquo;t matter to God because He knows that you&rsquo;re going to
come home, when you choose to. And your throne awaits you: the throne of
mastery over your creations.

We begin then, now, to weave a blending that will create a vibration and
frequency through this &lsquo;family&rsquo;. Hmm. A family which is
limited because we&rsquo;re excluding others!

[Laughs] It is an open invitation. And any are free to join in the
dance, if they have heard truthfully the desire to awaken within
themselves.

In closing, then, in this hour, my peace do I give unto you&mdash;and
not as the world gives, give I unto you. Why would I want to give as the
world gives? Surely that is the height of insanity. For the world gives
only to take away. The world gives only that you might recognize the
world and its greatness. But I give as my Father once gave to
me&mdash;freely, unconditionally, as the overflow of love.

Therefore, peace be unto you always, creators of heavens and hells, who
are free at any time to choose anew. And because I am without time, I
can wait forever for you to choose with me.

Amen.

