---
title: "WOK Lesson Ten - Question One"
contents: "wok"
---

### Way of Knowing, Lesson Ten: Question One

There is a book out now, and it is called *The Bible Codes*. And
there’s been discovered a secret code in the Torah, which indicates a
lot of events that have occurred now, in this time frame. Would you care
to elaborate on the validity of that?

---

### Answer

Indeed, beloved friend. It is not by accident — as nothing is —
that it is come to pass that the question is being asked now. Anyone who
has listened closely to what I just shared with you should have a good
smile and a good laugh, recognizing that the question about these Bible
codes is in perfect alignment with what has been shared.

There is, indeed, what you could call, a secret code that passes through
the Torah. It will not be discovered to be as clear as expressed in the
New Testament, except through *certain strands* of my teachings. That
secret code is like a road map, laid *under* the field of Creation of
humanity. For remember, from the time the dream of separation first
entered into the mind, the Father created its *correction*. And that
correction is being played out in the field of space and time. That
which was called the Torah was, indeed, written by *prophets*, if you will
— *mystics* would be another word; or how about *channels*? — who received
guidance to tell stories, some of which, by the way, are fictional, and
yet, carry what you call a mythical element. They are fiction, not as a
lie, but as stories designed to prompt the soul to remember the Truth.

Within these books of the Torah, then, there has been a strand of Light,
like a thread woven through it all, that carries little molecules, or
little atoms of essential Truth, revealing and carrying forth God’s plan
for the enlightenment of His Creation. Within this strand, yes, many
events have needed to come to pass. Many events in your world are
secondary, or third or fourth in levels of importance. Some are quite
primary within the greater expression of God’s plan. I am mentioned in
the Torah seventy times. I do not mean here by the words that you would
read in your scripture of the Torah, but through that which can be
revealed through these Bible codes.

All of this is to say that it was already known by the Lineage that a
day would come within this Family called the Jewish nation, that a
certain one would be born who is like the *fruit of the fruit*. There is
some of Moses, some of Ezekiel, some of every prophet within me, as that
strand of Light, emanating from Abba, *culminated* in the expression of
the life of Jeshua ben Joseph, *mirroring* the Truth of every soul back to
Itself, even though it was so deeply asleep. Whether it be Judas, or
Esther, or Mary — all of them, every being who has ever come to hear of
my Life, no matter how asleep they’ve been — Abba, through me, created
that which models the Truth of every soul. That is what I meant when I
said I was merely a prototype for what is to come, and what I meant when
I said,

> Greater works than these will you do.

For there is great power — exponential power — when there are ten
Christs as opposed to one, or fifty thousand Christs as opposed to ten.
That’s what’s coming on your planet — *a planet of Christs*. And then, as
they say in your language, *look out*!

Therefore, indeed, the code is valid. It’s not by accident that it is
only being unraveled now, with your high technology. It required that
technology to even begin to discover it. It does, indeed, predict many
events that have come to pass, but this is only to remind you that all
is *already* in the Hands of your Creator. Darkness *cannot* overcome Light.
Fear *cannot* defeat Love. Hell *cannot* replace Heaven. The dream of
separation *cannot* replace the Reality of perfect union. The spell or
illusion of what you would call *maya*, cannot come to overshadow
enlightenment.

There are many ways to put that duality, but it comes down to the same
thing, and it’s the very same thing that I have been speaking to you for
hours and hours and hours over these many years. There is something
being enacted on the human plane. It is the awakening from illusion to
Reality played out in the field of space and time, played out in the
field of your own consciousness, which mirrors, or recapitulates, the
dream that the Son of God has chosen to have. It is just a dream. And
guess who wins in the end?

Yes, there is a code within the Torah. It will be found, eventually, to
extend through the teachings of mine that are yet pure, and purely
recorded in what is called the New Testament. But it will not be found
to permeate all books of the Bible. The Torah, my teachings in the New
Testament, and little smatterings here and there elsewhere.

Unfortunately, the code *requires* that the individuals using it be
willing to ask *bold* questions. So far, they have asked conservative
questions because they are conservatively-minded. But that’s perfectly
okay. All that matters here is that you recognize that this is simply
more evidence for the Truth I have shared with you many times. Namely,
that in the moment the dream of separation was created, the Father
created the correction, and it is in place. It’s already occurring, it’s
always been occurring, and *it will not fail*!

Does that sufficiently answer your request?

*Response*: Yes.

