---
title: "Death and Earth Changes - Question Ten"
contents: "early"
---

### Question

Getting back to Shanti Christo, could you give us an idea when this will
materialize?

### Answer

Beloved friend, it already has. And in your third-dimensional plane of
time, you are witnessing the process whereby that materialization
occurs. In reality, it is already finished, because God does not think
thoughts that arise incomplete. Hm? You are merely tuning in to what has
already occurred. I know that’s a bit of a leap but it’s okay, let
yourself take it. You are merely choosing to allow yourself to
participate in what you’ve already done. For hear this: In reality, the
dream and the process of awakening never occurred. For what has no
effect has never happened. The dream, the awakening of the dream, is
already done. You might say you are watching the film. Film at 11:00.
Can you imagine a newscaster saying,

> *Mmm. All of creation has awakened today and returned to the Holy Mind
> of God. Film at 11:00.*

And what you are experiencing is the watching of the film. Like being
within a hologram. Yes, and when are the specific parts going to
manifest that involve you? When would you *like* them to manifest?

Tomorrow.

Very well. Simply awaken tomorrow, and know: It is finished. Let no
doubt arise in your mind, and simply allow the Comforter, the Holy
Spirit, to reveal to you what has been finished. Imagine a&hellip; what you
call a supervisor at a construction site, building a beautiful building,
and you come by and you go,

> *How did this happen?*

And he puts his arm around you and says,

> *Come. First I’ll show you the foundation, I’ll show you the blueprint
> plans&hellip;*

And yet, the whole time you’re in the building and your mind begins to
tap in to the day they first brought the concrete to make the
foundation, then the steel girders, and then later the interior
decorators putting the final touches — as he describes for you the
process whereby the very building in which you live was created. The
buildings on that land are already there. You just don’t see them yet.
But they’re settling in, and you will see them. And when you see them,
you will know, just like hundreds of other beings will know,

> *I’ve seen those before.*

Not in another place and time, but because you’ve already experienced
the completion. Does that make sense?

Yes.

Indeed. And what can stand against the will of God? That is why those
that are called to add to and create this vibration must always rest in
certainty, in knowingness: It is finished. What a delightful way to
spend the last afternoon of the dream of separation. Something to think
about.


