---
title: "Death and Earth Changes - Question Two"
contents: "early"
---

### Question

Yes, thank you. But everything you’ve said tonight can be taken either
physically or metaphorically. Is this a physical change that will occur
on the planet, or is this a metaphorical change that will occur on the
planet and the planet itself remains unscathed?

### Answer

Beloved friend, I am very glad that you have posed your question in just
that way. Now, we both know that to put anything into language in the
form of a question, you are forced to deal with the language structure
you have. Your language structure lives in duality. Things are either on
or off, white or black, they’re metaphor or they’re physical. But I say
unto you, the whole of this physical dimension is a metaphor. It is a
symbol of a vibration of thought. Does that make it less real? Not at
all. For how can the Holy Child of God create unreality? Therefore, this
*dream* will be played out and involve the whole of the created domain.
And yet it’s still just a metaphor, *part of a dream.* For this house
you sit in, the town in which it resides, and the planet upon which this
town resides all exist in a space no wider than the tip of a pin. And
yet, where *you* abide, all of creation is contained within you, and you
are vast beyond the reach of all solar systems. And when you get a feel
for that, you will, indeed, marvel.

Yes, it will occur, and it is inappropriate and inaccurate for anyone to
assume that this change is merely pictures or symbols, but it really
only occurs in something called the mind that’s somewhere tucked inside
a body and has nothing at all to do with the planet, with the stars,
with the comets, with the photon belts. ‘Tis all one thing: Mind
creating. Therefore, for Mind to awaken, all of Mind awakens and
changes. Yes, it will involve the planet itself. I believe that should
help make it clear.

