---
title: "Death and Earth Changes - Question Three"
contents: "early"
---

### Question

Then the role of Shanti Christo must also be clear in this process. Is
it a beacon?

### Answer

Actually, beloved friend, we have merely beguiled you, and that which is
called Shanti Christo is a distractive mechanism, being created by the
Devil.

Beloved friend, yes. Shanti Christo is an expression of a vibration of
thought, like a pebble dropped in a pond, that is created to manifest
specific vibrational patterns or ripples. It will be utilized by us to
attract many minds and many beings who can step through the portal into
awakened consciousness. There are many portals being created. And why do
there need to be many portals? Because there are many levels of
consciousness and there are many forms of experience that you’ve all
created, everyone on the planet. I am not everyone’s teacher, even
though I am in charge of the Atonement. So, imagine that I’m merely
sitting behind a small little desk out in the meadow, and I pick up the,
what you call your cordless telephone. In this case it’s even a
non-physical phone. And I will call another teacher, another being, and
say,

> *You know, this one over there had a very good connection with you
> back in Egypt four thousand years ago. Why don’t you pop down and have
> a little chat with them?*

So there is an orchestration going on. There may seem to be many forms
of the universal curriculum, many teachers, many methodologies. And yet,
all of them are but portals through which the soul chooses to walk — to
step from fear to love, from insanity to sanity, from dreams to reality.
Shanti Christo, then, is one such portal through which I specifically
can activate the call and create a gathering place, if you will — a
gathering frequency — through which I can call those to myself who,
because of past resonances, past experiences, have come to love me and
have come to trust me as one who can carry them over the bridge. Hm?

Yes, Shanti Christo has a role to play, and rest assured there is a
safety mechanism built into this vibration. This vibration cannot be
manipulated or used for personal gain. It cannot be misdirected, for the
mind that may be attracted to it and then sort of bounces off and goes
to the left or right is one that merely realizes that this vibration
requires (what is your phrase?) the “getting real”. This is a vibration
and a portal that helps souls step into the next vibration. You can’t
sneak anything past the ego-detector. Hmm.

