---
title: "Death and Earth Changes - Question Five"
contents: "early"
---

### Question

Is there truly any difference between entities that describe themselves
as Germaine, Jeshua, Michael, and who would bring their message through
an individual? Is there really any difference among the messengers?

### Answer

The answer is a resounding yes. And why? When you speak of difference,
what you are alluding to is that is there an entity that is its own
unique sphere of consciousness arising out of the One Mind. God is aware
of God because of God’s creation. You are God’s creation. Therefore, the
Father knows Himself because *you* exist to be aware of Him.
Individuation, like the ripple arising out of the ocean, does not change
the substance — it’s still all made of one thing — and yet, there is
individuation, uniqueness, just as there are several souls associated
with the bodies that have gathered in this room, and you all have your
own unique, cosmic social security number.

Will it be bankrupt when we get there?

No, it is always, shall we say, overflowing. And you don’t even have to
pay into it!

So, understand, then, that when we speak of One Mind, we are not saying
that individuality does not exist. We’re merely saying that each being,
each created being, has within them the power to operate from the One
Mind that I have called Christed Consciousness. It can go by many names.
And yet, individuation is eternal. There will never be a time, a moment,
or a non-moment, when all of you simply dissolve into some amorphous
blob of awareness. In other words, the more you settle into God, the
more the desire there is to individuate, so that you can have
relationship in which to celebrate the good, the holy, and the
beautiful — to dance, eternally at play in the Father’s Kingdom.

Does that help in that regard?

Most definitely.

Now, by the way, I would highly suggest that I would never listen to the
Germaine fellow. And Michael sometimes is a little… Hmmm. Just kidding,
of course.

And Mary shops at K-Mart.

Mmm&hellip; I’ve never been able to keep that one under control. Rest assured,
we delight with one another, we play with one another, we *see* the
Creator, we *see* the presence of God *as each of us,* and we respect
our individuation, just as you respect yours. To see the oneness in
diversity, to experience communion between two wholes — that is the
great promise of the Kingdom. To be in holy relationship in which two
Christs, as individuated beings, yet emerging from and operating from
the same mind, the same values, the same love, the same compassion, the
same wisdom, the same unlimited power to create the good, the holy, and
the beautiful &hellip; Now *that is a dance worth attending*.

Therefore, seek not the death of the self, but seek the arisen Self. Hm?
That should help.

{% comment %}
Would you care to summarize this evening?

It has been&hellip; worthwhile. Beloved friend, as you well know, since the
thought was dropped in the mind, that this short gathering of this
evening was designed to bring forth some specific corrections that will
be flowing out to many minds — many more minds than you’re even aware
of. For those first ones who receive it will be struck, a little chord
is struck,

> *Oh, yes, that’s right. Thank you for the nudge. I have to get on with
> it. I have to get on with it. I was beginning to fall into the hope
> that I could just dissolve away and not have to birth Christ.*

And then they will give that to many others.

There is much being taught in your world that is *not* correct. Anything
based on fear is incorrect. Anything based on the *end of creation*,
even in positive terms, is incorrect. For the Father extends himself
*eternally*. How, then, can there be an end to creation? There is only
ever-expanding fullness — fullness expanding into fullness, and into
fullness, and into fullness, and into fullness. Higher and higher, and
wider and wider, and brighter and brighter, and ever more blissful and
ever more wise and loving.

And you all know exactly what that means, for every consciousness
reciprocates or plays out the very journey of creation. You all know
that you’ve made creations that were a little difficult, they were a
little crude; and so you sought new ways, didn’t you? And you keep
birthing better and better creations. Guess what? That’s it! That’s the
power of God, which is the soul, seeking to create the good, the holy,
and the beautiful. And there reaches a point, of course, where you
realize that you have to give up being identified with egoic
consciousness, so that Spirit can truly use us all to create in a
Christed realm. Hm? Like leaving the things of childhood behind and
taking up your rightful place of a powerful, mature adult. To be an
adult in the Kingdom is to *be* Christ.

Therefore, indeed, beloved friends, *allow* the good, the holy, and the
beautiful to pour forth through *your soul*. For you are the ones sent
in this age, with all power under Heaven and Earth, to reveal to your
brothers and sisters the truth of a happy dream, the truth of perfect
freedom, the end of fear, and the remembrance of Love.

Be you, therefore, with one another often, and remember always that you
are the Light of this world. Why not get on with it? And with that,
peace unto you always, from the heart of one who loves you and has
reached across space and time to touch you and to whisper to you,

> *Beloved friend, come, take my hand. We are on the bridge already.
> Just step lightly. Come with me. I know the way.*

From that one — who is me, and speaking on behalf of the many who gather
with me each and every time this specific work is done — I love you and
we love you. It is not possible for you to journey alone. And what you
are asked to do in the depth of your vision and in your heart, rest
assured, it would not be asked if you were not also given the power and
the support to bring it about. Never think you need to be the maker and
the doer. You need only be, as each of us is, a servant of the Mind of
the Creator who is but Love and whom we serve with perfect freedom and
joy and fulfillment.

{% endcomment %}
