---
title: "Death and Earth Changes - Question Seven"
contents: "early"
---

### Question

So, from what you’re saying then, there is no set sequence that occurs
at that moment called death. So a lot of people report on going through
the tunnel and you’re there and&hellip;

### Answer

That is a very&hellip; The tunnel experience being spoken of in your cultures
as the near-death experience is a very, very basic first stage of the
dying process. Primarily, it entails the withdrawal of energy from the
brain core — from the brain core to the stem of the body or toward the
spine of the body. It creates the *perception* of the tunnel, in which
there is a withdrawal from the senses of the body into this, what
appears to be a tunnel. And it is a portal and a doorway. And yes, I
appear to many, and others appear, as well. But the belief system is
still functioning. That is only one of the first stages of the actual
death process.

As it continues, and as the brain core literally dies — which simply
means that life force is withdrawn and not returned to it, so it is
dropped like old baggage — then the soul, the consciousness, experiences
a vibrational leap, what you might call a quantum leap in vibrational
states, into more and more subtle states of its own being. But there is
a period in which there is a playing-out of the residual effects of all
of its perceptions and beliefs. It is called the &hellip; in one stage, the
life story is played back that fast. \[Snaps fingers\] Thoughts or fears
of a Satan or beliefs in a Savior become the energy which attracts that
experience to that individual.

So, in a general sense, there is something that occurs energetically.
But what occurs within that energy is *entirely unique* to each
individual. And what will matter is this: If time has been used
constructively — that is, if you utilized time to let go of limiting
beliefs and begin to foster first faith and then direct experience in
tapping into other dimensions, into remembering the mind of God, if you
practiced forgiveness and healing — then at death fear has no place to
grip the mind.

Yes, the tunnel begins to happen because the energy is being withdrawn
from the cellular structure of the body, from the brain itself toward
the brain stem — what I call the stem or the interior of the spine. And
since the mind has been cultivating devotion to God, the willingness to
heal, the ability to *let go* without fear, then as these things
come up and move through very, very quickly, they have no effect
whatsoever, and the mind proceeds toward light — greater and greater
dimensions of light. Hm? And it is possible for the soul, then, to
remain in those dimensions without any need of incarnating again. It is
always something left unhealed — a fear, a self-judgment, a resentment,
an old anger — that creates a heaviness that draws the soul, using its
infinite power, to re-create third-dimensional physicality yet again, to
try to get it right. It is always much wiser to use the incarnation you
have, to get it right! Don’t think about the old ones; don’t think about
the ones that might come. Realize that right where you are, *right where
you are,* everything is *perfect for your awakening*.

You can awaken *now*, by choosing to teach only Love. And that must
include to yourself. To love the self is ultimately the final portal,
for only when you truly love yourself can you serve another. Only when
you love yourself so much you’re no longer willing to tolerate anything
but the presence of Christ in you. When you believe that you are so
valuable that you should be treated like a priceless jewel. Then,
indeed, Christ will arise. For the Holy Son of God, who is but Christ,
will not come up and take his abode in a home unworthy of him. And what
is that home? It’s not the body; it’s the Mind. Therefore, love
yourself.

When I once said, “Love your neighbor as yourself,” I thought it was
obvious that that meant you had to love yourself before you could ever
experience loving your neighbor. Therefore, to learn the way of love,
practice with diligence forgiveness. Release expectation from anyone or
anything. Create your vertical alignment in the mind of God. And seek
not from the world what it does not possess: the eternal and perfect
peace that birthed you and that you are seeking to recover. “Be you,
therefore, whole and perfect,” means just that. Wake up. Get it right
while you’re on the planet. Let the mind heal. Choose to be the presence
of Love. Trust God above all things, and walk this world as the meek who
will inherit it. Be you, therefore, the presence of Love.

And when the time comes, as it must, for that temporary density
structure called the body to dissolve and be given back to the Earth
from which it came, fear will have no place in you. And as the tunnel
begins to appear and you *know — *this happens to every mind, by the
way — there is a moment when *you know* something is occurring that’s
going to occur and you’re not going to be able to interrupt it any more;
you’re not going to be able to avoid the portal. When you literally feel
the energy withdraw from the cells of the body and move toward the stem,
or what you call the spinal column, you will welcome it like a joyous
ride. And you will turn your attention immediately upward — that is a
metaphorical term — but upward to the higher teachings of the mind of
God, rather than the teachings of a fearful world. And you will let
these things go like toys that have been outgrown. And then the soul can
*ascend* into its full remembrance.

“And in my Father’s house are many mansions,” which means that there are
an infinite number of dimensions in which you can come to make a new
home, based on the quality of vibration that you have brought yourself
to in your understanding and in your consciousness, which is nothing
more than your love. But the only thing you can ever truly regret is
that perhaps you resisted giving that love away, even up to the moment
of death. And therefore, love freely, love abundantly, and love without
ceasing. And above all, love the Self that has been birthed in the mind
of God, for no other reason than to *live in the consciousness of God*.

