---
title: "WOH Lesson Eight - Question Two"
contents: "woh"
---

### Way of the Heart, Lesson Eight: Question Two

What is the difference between that which needs to be healed
and just being the perfect being we are?

---

### Answer

There is no difference. When you are, in Truth, being the
perfect being that you are, you will find that there is an absence of
resistance. The mind that seeks to try to understand what must be
healed, or the mind that says,

> Well, this is coming up and I really don’t think that’s who and what I
> am anyway, so why don’t I just abide in some spiritual realm?

That mind is in *resistance*. It has lost its humility. It has lost its
perfect trust that the Father of all things knows how to guide you home.
And home is merely back to a place where you become willing to allow
something to be extended through you.

Let me share with all of you something that’s rather important that has
not truly been brought out as clearly as it needs to be. Often, when
something comes up for healing, it is an energy, listen well, although
you seem to associate it with some memory or experience that you think
is within your very private realm of experience, what is actually coming
up to be healed is an energy that is involved and is controlling the
life of another soul. It’s being presented to *your consciousness* because
*you* are at a place where you have the *power* and the *clarity* to
*understand* that it *can be healed*.

And that is why when you choose healing, when you don’t resist what
comes up, when you realize that Love trusts all things, embraces all
things, allows all things and transcends all things, when you realize
that you are merely the bringer of Love, then it doesn’t matter what
comes up!

> Oh! This needs healing.

And you heal it from an *impersonal level*. You don’t identify with it,
even if you think it’s linked somehow to something you are quite certain
has been part of your past experience.

Sometimes you can’t even remember where you put your car keys. How do
you know for sure it’s from your past? Just heal it. Because when you do
that, you are being the perfection of the beingness you are. You are
being Christ that is saying,

> Come and lay your sins upon the altar of my Heart, and I will heal it
> for you.

It doesn’t matter where it came from. It doesn’t matter who caused it.
All that matters is the healing. If it comes up and you recognize
there’s an obstacle, something that requires healing from the perfection
of your being, wrap the Love of Christ around it and heal it. And when
you do that, you uplift a brother or sister who you may never physically
meet.

If your commitment is to Christ, your commitment is to the healing of
anything that is unlike Love. It’s mere entertainment to try to figure
out whether its your stuff or somebody else’s. Does it matter? And is
there a separation between you and all of your brothers and sisters? To
assist another to heal is to heal yourself. To heal yourself is to
uplift another. There is only Love and fear. Ultimately, you are really
just healing fear by bringing Love to it.

There seem to be many minds and individuals through which Love and fear
seem to battle for ascendancy. That is like the waves on top of the
ocean. In this realm of experience, you believe that there are many
separate minds. Ultimately you are all but an aspect of one another. And
there is only one Child of God that exists.

Heal what is presented to your consciousness, and stop identifying it as
yours. There is Love. There is fear. There is the need to heal, which is
the bridge between the two. Will you choose to identify as fear and,
therefore, deny Love? Or will you identify yourself as Love and get on
with it? If you are abiding in the perfection of your being, I believe
the answer becomes self-evident.

