---
title: "WOK Lesson Six - Question One"
contents: "wok"
---

### Way of Knowing, Lesson Six: Question One

What is the difference between *joy* and *pleasure*, and why do a
lot of spiritual traditions denounce pleasure?

---

### Answer

It is a very wise question you’ve been prompted to ask in your
willingness to be a creator. Hmm! There is, indeed, a difference between
*joy* and *pleasure*. In your human realm, in the realm of the body-mind,
joy and pleasure are often deeply confused. And so the mind becomes
hoodwinked into pursuing *pleasure*, believing it will find *joy*.

How, then, to distinguish between the two?

Pleasure is dependent on a specific energetic state temporarily passing
through the nervous system of the body. Joy is a quality of recognition
in the Spirit, or the Deep Mind, or the Heart, that *transcends* all
conditions. A mind that is awake can know joy in the midst of what
appears to be the hardships that can pass by in life.

By way of my own experience as a man upon your plane, your world would
say that my crucifixion was a *very* painful experience. There was a lot
going on in the body, but I was in a state of joy, not a state of
pleasure. When I danced and sang and drank some wine and broke bread
with my friends, I experienced pleasure. That is, the food substances,
the vibrations of the music, created a temporary pattern of energy in
the nervous system that elicited certain reactions within the brain-mind
and the body itself — pleasurable sensations.

I learned, because I was taught to learn, that pleasure is exactly the
same as pain in this regard. It has a beginning and an end, and it
passes through the physical body and the nervous system and the brain,
and that’s it. I learned that joy was becoming free of all illusions of
separation.

Imagine that the depth of your mind was truly like a spacious ocean that
could contain all waves that arise within the field of the body-mind
without any resistance at all, without being disturbed in its depth.
There could be a great storm on the surface, but the depth of the ocean
is undisturbed. Joy is a quality of awareness that is brought about
through the release of illusions and the correction of how the mind
thinks and how the heart feels. Joy is a quality of being that is not
dependent on health or disease, money or poverty, birth, death, loss, or
gain. To gain something in the world does not increase joy. It may,
temporarily, give you pleasure.

That should give you enough to think about in regard to that part of
your question.

Why have certain spiritual traditions denounced or sought to have their
practitioners get out of the pleasure trap? Well, frankly, just because
of this. Because the human mind *equates* pleasure with joy. And
therefore, when unpleasurable sensations, such as sadness, such as
confusion or doubt, or such as a physical sensation from an illness is
passing through the body, the mind wants to get out of that state and
create a different state. But that is merely the realm of duality in
which there is no freedom.

True joy comes when no passing state of feeling in the body is denied or
judged, but rather, embraced and experienced because that mind realizes
it is not the passing state — it is not limited or identified with the
passing state. The *joy-filled mind* can cry like no one has ever cried
before. The joy-filled mind can embrace sadness to the depth, the
greatest depth, that could be imagined. The joy-filled mind is the mind
that observes all things, trusts all things, allows all things, embraces
all things, transcends all things.

Joy, then, is a quality of *Knowingness*. Pleasure is a *physiological*
state — very temporary — of the body-mind. Why, then, would any
spiritual teacher say,

> Be very careful. Don’t seek pleasure.

Simply because the mind can become addicted to confusing joy and
pleasure. And therefore, whenever things aren’t going right, it will try
to recreate a temporary pleasurable state in the body. But all that does
is continue the rut of the mind’s misidentifying itself as the body. It
keeps it in the realm of temporality and not in the realm of the
eternal.

Now does that mean that you should refuse pleasure? Absolutely not! Just
don’t seek it. What do I mean by that? I have said to you many times
that the body cannot be used to *get*. It can only be used to *give*. The
Healed Mind does not need to use the body to get anything, for It sees
that the body is merely a temporary communication device. It receives
communications from other forms of life, other beings — rocks, trees,
and human beings, and the wind and the waves and the stars — and It
communicates Itself, It communicates Mind, through the body.

Many, for instance, in the realm of sexuality, are trying to *use* the
body to *get* something called the pleasurable state because they think
that pleasure is the same as joy. But the Awakened Mind, no longer
misidentifying joy and pleasure, allows pleasurable states to pass
through the body-mind, but only as a secondary effect of Its decision to
use the body to enjoin with sexuality for the sole purpose of
communicating to another:

> I see you in your perfect innocence and would celebrate it by joining
> with you whole-bodily.

So It is involved in *giving*, and the pleasurable states, that may or may
not come and are always perhaps a little different, are only secondary.
And that afterward, that Mind doesn’t give it a second thought. It
doesn’t say,

> Wow. The lights and bells and whistles didn’t come on. It just wasn’t
> what it should have been.

That kind of mind is involved in *getting*, because it needs pleasure,
because it believes that pleasure is the same as joy.

Joy is the recognition that,

> I and my Father are One. And in all contexts, I can choose Love over
> fear.

Therefore, indeed, there is a reason that many spiritual traditions have
warned its students about the pleasure thing. Often that has gotten
misinterpreted and gone beyond the point of its usefulness. If a mind
*denies* or *suppresses* pleasure, it has the same effect as the mind that
becomes *addicted* to pleasurable states. It will put out as much energy
to *resist* a passing physiological state as the addicted mind will put
into *seeking* pleasurable states. Either one is imprisonment.

Therefore, my suggestion for you is: Do not seek pleasure, but rather,
seek the Kingdom. Be the presence of Love. And when pleasurable
sensations pass through your awareness in the body-mind, notice them,
accept them, and be done with them. Just like when so-called
unpleasurable states — sadness, anger, fear, whatever it is that is
arising — notice it, embrace it, let it pass through. Get on with being
the presence of Love.

Does that help you in regard to your question?

*Response*: Yes.

*Jeshua*: Did it bring any illumination?

*Response*: [laughing] Yes.

*Jeshua*: Then indeed, beloved friend, remember: The body simply cannot
accomplish *getting* anything. It *can* be used for grand things — the
extension of Love. That, in itself, usually will generate acceptable,
passing, pleasurable sensations.

Do you have anything else, then?

