---
title: "WOK Lesson Six - Question Two"
contents: "wok"
---

### Way of Knowing, Lesson Six: Question Two

The Shanti Christo board had a phone conference today, and I asked
if anybody had any questions for this tape. And they suggested that we
just ask you if you could speak to us &ndash; the board and the members as
well &ndash; about the direction we&rsquo;re going and anything that you would care
to address about the frequency of Shanti Christo and what we can do to
keep our frequencies in alignment with the vision.

---

### Answer

First, the frequency of Shanti Christo is unchanged, unchanging,
and unchangeable forever. Simply because it *is* the *Peace of Christ*. But
remember that peace is not a passive state at all. Rather, it is the
foundation, the very empowering foundation, from which one accepts the
pebble in the pond of the Will of God and knows that it is unlimited
forever &ndash; with all power necessary to do *whatever* is asked. Such a mind
is very powerful. Such a mind might be *extremely active* in the world.
Such a mind remains at peace.

What can you do, then, *for* the vibration of Shanti Christo? Absolutely
nothing. What you can do for *yourself* is want more of it. In that way is
the vibration or frequency of Shanti Christo extended into the world. I
once said that Love merely attracts the seeker of Reality to Itself.

God, then, pours Himself out into the world by becoming so attractive
that His creations &ndash; the minds that populate the world &ndash; want more of
Him. And they open to receive what is present.

Therefore, if you would serve the extension of Shanti Christo, be
ever-vigilant to discipline the mind to want *only* more of God &ndash; for
yourself. As you open to more of God, and *wait on no one*, other minds
will decide whether or not they are willing to release what is
obstructing them from receiving more of God. And then you&rsquo;ll be guided
in how to create a context that might allow that to occur. Not that the
context causes it. It merely gives the other mind permission to do so.

Do not become overly attached to the form or the accomplishment, but
rather to the frequency you are allowing yourself to live within.
Remember that all things are perfect. You need not be concerned about &ndash;
hmm, shall we say &ndash; being a model, being a way-shower. You should not be
concerned, whatsoever, with satisfying everybody who&rsquo;s looking for God
who might come your way.

Rather, see that *you* are releasing the impurities that block the pure
presence of God&rsquo;s Love: specialness, egotism, denial, fear, what you
would call as I&rsquo;ve heard you term it &ldquo;Going up and out instead of down
and in&rdquo; &ndash; thinking instead of feeling. &ldquo;Thinking instead of dancing,&rdquo;
would be my way of saying it. Are you extending Love? Are you giving
freedom to each and every mind, wanting only that mind to experience
greater joy, letting them have their freedom in how they discover that.
Are you awaking each morning with appreciation and joy, knowing that
Shanti Christo has already been fulfilled and manifested? Are you
delighting in allowing it to manifest in such a way that *you* learn
something new about the nature of mind, the power of consciousness, and
the Reality of Love?

If indeed, then, you would serve the vibration of Shanti Christo, you
must be a *creator* and not a *maker*. But remind all of this: making is not
the same as taking action. A mind can be involved in making by
*refraining* from taking action. Does that make sense for you? Therefore,
trust all things, allow all things, celebrate all things, see the
perfection of all things, and *be* the vibration of Shanti Christo.

That should be enough for now.

Do you have anything else?

*Response*: No.

*Jeshua*: Very well. Therefore, we&rsquo;ll bring this question and answer
session to an end.

And yet, I would say unto all of you &ndash; each and every one of you who
will hear these words now, and even fifty years from now &ndash; remember
always that the One who speaks to you through the vibration of these
vocal cords is indeed that One who walked upon your plane as a man some
two thousand years ago and delights only in extending Creation. Who
looks upon you as a brother and as a friend, and who sees only your
perfect innocence and delights in communicating with the only begotten
Child of God &ndash; you!

Be you, therefore, at peace. And *know* you are loved.

Amen.

