---
title: "WOH Lesson Nine - Question One"
contents: "woh"
---

### Way of the Heart, Lesson Nine: Question One

Is it necessary, Jeshua, to go to the other aspects of
ourselves and ask forgiveness for errors that we feel we have made?

---

### Answer

This is a very, very good question. I am glad you have asked it.
In fact, I want to make a suggestion to you that you transcribe that
question and the answer that I am to give you and send it to this, my
beloved brother and his mate, and mention to them that I have suggested
that it would be most appropriate to include this question and answer in
their next communication with their friends.

Now, is it necessary to go to those aspects of ourselves and ask
forgiveness, those voices within the mind? Is it necessary to go to them
in order to bring about some form of healing? Now listen very carefully.
There is, in Truth, nothing which is *necessary* in itself. There’s not
something etched in stone that must be achieved in order for healing to
occur, except complete and unconditional *self-acceptance*. The way in
which each mind arrives at that goal will be unique and somewhat
different. And why is this so? Because each mind uses its freedom of
power, its freedom of consciousness, to create a spiral that took it
seemingly away from its deep sense of perfect union with God.

If you could imagine many strands of thread suddenly unraveling from a
central ball of thread, and they all seemed to go off in their own way
and their own direction, that would be like the many minds which have
split apart from the One Mind of the Son of God. And therefore, they
find themselves seemingly at the end of that thread, somewhere out there
in the vast space of Mind wanting to come home. And then, they begin to
create their pathway back to God.

As the mind does that, it is actually using the very thing which *is* the
Kingdom of Heaven, which is your union with God. You are using the power
of consciousness to create perceptions of yourself, and all that you see
around you, to make the journey home. An idea comes into the mind and
you move in that direction. And it seems to work for a while. And then,
you have to go to a different idea, a deeper idea. Everyone is doing
that. And so, they are literally creating their pathway home, not quite
recognizing that what they are seeking is the very power to create, with
which they are creating their pathway home.

So, at any time, there can be the miracle of miracles, the quantum leap,
that transcends time, because the mind can suddenly understand and get
all that it needs to do and understand is to accept itself, and it is
already home. Generally, there are glimmers of that. And so there are
little quantum leaps, little accelerations in which old ideas and
perceptions are discarded as self-acceptance deepens.

Again, for you, as well as for many, there seemed to be stages at which
accessing the different voices that you have made, in your attempt to
fragment yourself from God, can then be perfectly appropriate, perfectly
empowering — and even, it will seem to appear, *necessary* from where you
are, as you come up that strand of thread on your way back to perfect
union.

So, for each mind, then, it is necessary to go within and truly be
honest.

> What am I feeling?
> 
> I keep sensing that I haven’t forgiven myself, or this thing, or that
> thing.
> 
> I feel this voice keeps calling to me that says, “You’re not good
> enough. You’re not good enough.”

If those voices keep calling, something keeps calling for your
attention. Then that can be best accepted as your way home. It may be
different from someone else, but that’s irrelevant, since comparison and
contrast is a tendency of the egoic mind and not the Mind of Christ.

Merely observe what is occurring for you. And then allow yourself to
take whatever action is necessary to help bring about that healing that
keeps calling to you. Ultimately, all healing is the healing of the
perception of illusions. So yes, the voice that is calling to you is an
illusion, a chimera. It’s an echo of an old something that never really
happened. But within the great dream of separation itself, it is rather
senseless to be in denial about it.

Therefore, beloved friend, for you we would say, yes. Because these
voices call you and because you have a feeling, even in your body, that
you haven’t totally come to self-forgiveness, then, by turning your
attention — playfully and innocently — and listening to those voices
that are echoing to you (the very places within yourself to which you
have not extended forgiveness), this will bring those voices to the
surface. Then, have a dialogue with them as if they were a separate
entity.

And then, learn to wrap your arms of forgiveness around those parts.
This is an important aspect of your unique pathway home to the ball of
thread sitting in the middle of the Heart of God. This is true for
everyone. There cannot be denial. There cannot be comparison, analysis,
judgment. There can only be acceptance, allowance, embracing, trusting,
feeling — until that One Mind finds its way to bring the ship into the
harbor. No one can do it for you. However, you can have many friends,
such as me, who will assist you in the way that you have chosen.

Does all of that make sense for you?

*Response*: I will send it to Jon Marc and Anastasia.

*Jeshua*: Indeed. I would appreciate this, as it serves in the bigger
picture of the thread that is being interwoven now between many who have
been called, and many who will be called, to join in this adventure
which is called the energy of the Shanti Christo. Think of it this way:
As the One Mind fragmented into many points of Light, in one corner of
the Universe there were a few hundred thousand points of Light that
said,

> Well, we spun out together, we might as well spin back together!

*Response*: That’s precious. I’ve wanted to ask you that question for a
long time.

*Jeshua*: Yes, I know. Did you know that the question that seems to be
resisted in the mind is exactly the doorway being presented by the soul
to the conscious mind through which one takes its next leap up the
thread back to the Heart of God? That is why the questions that come up
from the depth of the Mind are of utmost importance. And you can train
the Mind to observe the question itself and go,

> Ah! This is a doorway coming up for me. I wonder what it is that is
> within the question? What does the question that is coming up from the
> depth of my being reveal to me? What does it conceal from me? What
> energy is beginning to shift in me now?

The question always reflects what’s coming up from the depth of the Mind
itself, to be learned, to be integrated, to be transcended.

There! Now you have something to consider from time to time.

