---
title: "Mastering Communication - Question One"
contents: "early"
---

### Question

Jeshua I’d like for you to address two sentences that I keep hearing in
my mind as we go through this, directly out of your *Course in
Miracles*. The first sentence is: “Never tell your brother that he is
what you would not want to be”. And the second one is: “Words are but
symbols of symbols and therefore twice removed from reality.” Would you
elaborate on those two?

---

### Answer

Certainly, I never said that. Words are indeed symbols of symbols, since
they represent an idea; and when a word is spoken it again gives the
message that this is the idea that you are valuing. Hm?

Now that is why, by the way, I asked you when we began: Do you live in a
world where words are not necessary? Since you abide *here*, it must be
your Father’s Will that you be the one who finds a way to communicate
Love *here*. And the wise teacher speaks the language of the student.
Therefore, words are necessary in this dimension as a way of pointing
beyond themselves to the symbols they represent and even beyond the
ideas to the direct experience of the revelation of Love’s presence.

Now, when you communicate to a brother or a sister in a way that
indicates to them that you believe they are less than Christ, because of
the power of thought and words, you have immediately placed *yourself* in
a position less than Christ. So that sentence refers to the divine
selfishness that we have spoke of in this hour.

Do you want to be less than Christ? If not, then communicate in such a
way that honours the truth of your brother or sister regardless of the
degree of insanity they may temporarily be choosing. Honour that place
first. We do not mean by that that you overlook the behaviour of
insanity but that you *see through it* and offer first the truth.

Does that make sense for you?

Yes.

Does it help in regard to those two sentences that ‘somebody’ must have
stuck in there by accident?

It’s nice to know you have a sense of humour.

Beloved friend, the further you go into God the more you have to just
laugh.


