---
title: "WOH Lesson One - Question One"
contents: "woh"
---

### Way of the Heart, Lesson One: Question One

What motivates you? How does an enlightened person move
throughout his or her day? Apparently you have moved into a state of
Oneness with Source, yet you still have a distinct, unique personality.
You are still a Self, yet you are also One with God. Can you describe
what this state is like for us?

---

### Answer


Beloved friend. What motivates me? Worldly accolades. Being hung
on so many walls in so many churches across the world. Hmm&hellip;  All of
the many priests and ministers who make a very good living professing to
teach my teaching, although they teach fear, and guilt, and judgment.
Hmm. What motivates me? The bets that I have placed with my “comrades in
arms,” who often believe that I’m wasting my time with humanity. For
there are, indeed, many Masters in many dimensions that wouldn’t touch
this plane with a ten-thousand foot pole. And yet, I say unto you,
beloved friend, I speak somewhat tongue-in-cheek, although I don’t have
one.

What motivates *me* is what must come to motivate *you* when the Christ Mind
is awakened within your being, and has come to outshine any other
possibility. For what will motivate you is the deep appreciation for the
Grace that has healed your mind, the great Mystery from which you have
arisen, that somehow reaches into your illusions and brings you Home.
You know not how. *Love* of your Creator will motivate you as you become
more and more empty of self, empty of fear, empty of the need to
survive, empty of everything unlike Love, and more and more conformed to
the *instrument of peace*.

Beloved friend, what motivates me is the very fact that you exist, and
that, at times, within you, your soul has cried out to come Home. And
because my Father has brought me home, because I know how perfect it is,
how can I not extend myself to you? So to my many comrades, who seem to
wish to avoid ever taking on the human experience, I simply, politely,
nod my non-physical head and say,

> Well yes, but you see, I know that no one goes Home until everyone goes
> Home.

I am merely your brother. And I seem to have gone ahead of you a little
while. And yet, I say this unto you, *The Way of the Heart* must cultivate
within you — and will — the recognition that there is no one and nothing
outside of you, and that only Love has the power to heal. And,
therefore, everyone that comes into your life is an aspect of your
savior, teaching you to cultivate the forgiveness, and the patience, and
the willingness to hear not the voice of ego within you, but to trust
the guidance of the Holy Spirit in all matters, regardless of how insane
it may seem to the world. What motivates me is the Grace that released
me from all illusion, even as that Grace is already at work
accomplishing the same within you.

What does it mean to go through the day in an enlightened state? I would
be happy to tell you, only I have no days, for a day is a function of
time. Time is something I no longer know anything about. It is not
something that pervades my beingness. I abide only in what is eternal.
And when fear has been completely uprooted from within your beingness,
you, too, will know timelessness. There is a message in that answer. I
hope you’re listening.

Beloved friend, what is it like to be One with the Source of all
Creation, and yet to hold an individuated consciousness? Why not ask
yourself? You know perfectly well. For in Reality, you *are* One with the
Source. And again, as the message of this hour has shared, you are
acting from your infinite perfection at all times, to call qualities of
experience, qualities of energy to yourself. That is exactly what I do.
The only difference is, I have chosen to call only that of the *highest
possible vibrations*, while you are choosing to say to yourself and to
me,

> Well, yes, yes. All that bliss stuff is fine, but I’d still like to get
> a little taste of drama and suffering. I just want to make sure I’ve got
> this down before I leave this plane.

In all respects, the choosing mechanism within you is equal to that
within me. Therefore, understand well, if you would know what it means
to know you are One with your Creator, while yet exhibiting an
individuality, simply begin to observe your own mind, your own choices,
your own experiences, with perfect innocence, constantly reminding
yourself that the Truth is true always. As a sunbeam can never escape
the sun, as a wave can never escape the ocean, you remain as you are
created to be. And you are given *infinite* and *perfect freedom*, because
you are made in the image of God.

Therefore, beloved friend, consider well what you would desire and what
your intention will be. Ask yourself, moment to moment,

> What am I truly committed unto? For what I am committed to is the focus
> of my intention. And the intention that I focus on brings to me the
> fulfillment of my desire. And what I am experiencing, like it or not, is
> <span class="tr_normal">always</span> the <span class="tr_normal">effect</span> of 
> my <span class="tr_normal">desire</span>.

