---
title: "WOH Lesson Two - Question One"
contents: "woh"
---

### Way of the Heart, Lesson Two: Question One

What did you experience when you went to the desert for forty
days and forty nights? And what was the purpose of doing a fast?

---

### Answer

Beloved friend, first, the purpose of the fasting was two-fold.
The body is, indeed, a communication device. It receives and transmits
what you might think of as signals. And we would emphasize here, for
your benefit, that the body *receives* signals as well as it transmits
them from your mind.

As you go through your normal day, you are abiding in a certain
*vibrational field*. That vibrational field requires that you, within some
boundary, live in such a way that you can effectively *communicate* and
*relate* within that vibrational field. Therefore, the body learns to
adapt to where you are placing it, and what you have decided to use the
body for. When the soul is desirous of shifting vibrational frequencies,
so that it might receive new signals, it is very valuable to *prepare* the
body by shifting it out of its normal patterns.

For instance, each time that you eat a certain food, and you eat it
daily, daily, daily, daily, month and year on end, the body adapts to
that vibrational frequency. It learns how to receive the energy of that
substance, to conform to that substance, to abide with that substance,
and then utilize the energy of that substance. When you shift away from
that substance, there is a space that is created. There is a time frame,
if you will, in which the body now is no longer receiving the signals
that substance brings. And it creates, shall we say, a pause. The very
*intelligence* in the cellular structure of the body pauses. And as it
pauses, you can begin to send new signals to the cells to be *open*, to be
*receptive*, to attune themselves to *new frequencies* which can then be
received.

Therefore, it is a very common practice amongst spiritual paths, that
when the soul is desirous of deepening its sense of self-awareness,
deepening its connection with God, however you wish to view this, that
which is called fasting has always been known to help facilitate such a
shift, because it puts the body at rest. It takes it out of its normal
range of vibrational experience so that it can be open, it can become
*attuned to new frequencies*. So the fasting has that purpose, by way of
preparation.

But secondly, this also affects the nature of the mind itself, the
thinking mind that is linked to the body and to the vibrational field of
physicality. Through the process of fasting, the *mind* also slows down.
It becomes more *open*. Spaciousness is created within it. And why is that
valuable? Because the soul wants to begin sending new signals down
through the levels or depths of Mind, through the thinking mind, down
into the cells of the body. It’s seeking to recreate its perceptions,
its structure that your lower self, your egoic mind, the mind that
carries you through the day, has been operating from. It’s seeking to
change this. So fasting is not just a matter of the body, alone. It
affects the thinking mechanism of the brain, as well, allowing new
electrical signals to pulse through the brain and down through the body.
And likewise, it creates a spaciousness so that new frequencies can be
received.

It is not unlike living in a house in which you have a certain music
playing at a certain volume all of the time, and then, suddenly, decide
that perhaps you would like to hear the sound of the birds outside the
window. So you reach over to the dial (do you not?) and you turn the
volume of the music down. You change the *field* in which you are having
experience. And then as the volume decreases, you begin to hear the
background — it has always been there — of the singing birds outside the
window. And your attention begins to turn from the vibrational field of
the music you’ve been listening to, to the vibrational field of the song
of the bird. New images come, new thoughts come, new feelings come
through the body.

So fasting serves that purpose. At a deeper level, view fasting as a
*deliberate decision* that really has nothing to do — levels of meaning —
with just food. It is the decision to interrupt *patterns* that have
become habitual. So you fast from sound, you fast from negative
thinking. You fast from being busy. You fast from going to bed at the
same time every day. You fast from arising at the same time every day,
for a day, for two days, for a week, for a month, for forty days and
forty nights.

You totally change certain patterns. And just as the effect of releasing
the body from habitual use of a certain substance creates a space in
which something new can take place, fasting from the simple time frame
that you’re used to arising in the morning, will create a *spaciousness*
in the mind. And you’ll become aware of things that you didn’t know were
going on. You’ll receive signals that you hadn’t received before.

When I first came to this, my beloved brother, in order to begin to
recultivate our communication ability, I often came to him, and then,
later, suggested to him, that he take up the practice of arising at 3
o’clock in the morning. That was not his customary time. And yet, by so
doing, he *fasted* from his normal habit, which *heightened* his sense of
awareness and created, or cultivated, the ability within the brain
structure and within the nervous system, to become *attuned* to the
*rarefied frequencies* that are always there, but are often drowned out,
because you’re still asleep. And the rest of the world around you has
not yet awakened to fill the vibrational field with all the noise of
millions of minds actively running about.

So that is the deeper meaning of *fasting*. It is *doing things in a new
way, fasting from old habits, which heightens your sense of awareness,
your vigilance to what is present*. Fasting is something that is
extremely valuable and should be done by everyone, from time to time. We
speak here not just of an occasional fasting of the body, but to begin
to look at all of the habits you have, even the ones that are positive.
If you go into your meditation room at the same time every day, the body
and the mind begins to anticipate what *ought* to happen through learned
experience. So go at a different time. If you are used to certain
prayers, use different ones, from time to time. If you are used to
abiding with certain friends on a regular basis, shift from time to
time. If you are used to talking a lot, spend a day in silence.

Begin, then, to look at the habits you have cultivated that are almost
continual — so much so that you never think about them. And then, set
aside a time deliberately to fast from that habit. If one has the habit
of reading the Sunday paper, go for a month in which no paper is read,
and observe how this creates space for you to begin to not only perceive
things differently, but to receive different impulses. You’ll find new
thoughts will come about how to utilize that time differently. Fasting
is an art, and one well worth cultivating within yourself.

Now, what did I experience in the desert for forty days and forty
nights? Fear, cold, heat, boredom, mental busyness, hunger, joy,
ecstasy, delight, freedom, out-of-body experiences, clairvoyance,
clairaudience, visitation by angels, visitation by creatures that should
have struck fear in me. You would call them snakes, spiders. Hmm.

Beloved friends, such a journey puts you in a position where you can no
longer be distracted from all of the “stuff” that is going on in your
daily consciousness. It is a time of *purification* ... purification by
having no opportunity to escape from truly observing everything that is
going on within the field of one’s consciousness. There arose within me
thoughts of hating God. There arose thoughts within me of deciding to
serve Satan instead of God. There arose thoughts within me of wanting to
abandon my roots and become a very wealthy merchant surrounded by, what
you call, the “dancing ladies” . . . hmm? If you can imagine any
thought, positive or negative, rest assured that within that forty-day
period, some symbol of that thought also arose within me to be
experienced — even cellularly in the body. Self-doubt arose, anger
arose. It all arose. The whole field of human consciousness arose within
me within those forty days and forty nights.

So that whole time period was a fast. And that was the purpose of
removing myself from all communication with anyone, from all comforts
that I had become accustomed to. There was only me with myself. And by
abiding with myself, I learned that I was never alone. The negative
things, as you might describe them, tended to come up after about the
fifth day and through approximately the twentieth day. Then it began to
shift as I began to notice that I could dis-identify with those things.
I didn’t have to judge them. I could notice being cold and just accept
it.

> The body’s cold. So what? \
> The body’s hungry. So what? \
> I’m desirous of seeing my friends and dancing and singing. So what?

I observed things arise. And finally, it was like they knew they had no
place to make a home in my mind. And so, they subsided.

And just as when you physically fast, finally the body is empty. And the
cellular structures of the body can begin to repair and heal at a deeper
level. The nervous system can rest deeply. Likewise, my mind began to
rest. And a *spaciousness* was created. And during the twentieth to about
the twenty-fifth day, I could feel a transition occurring, as my
consciousness began to let go of the world I had known. And everything
and everyone became as a distant memory.

And more and more, I noticed that a Light was being birthed or turned on
within me. A spaciousness was being created. And out of that
spaciousness, I began to tap into levels of consciousness that I had, in
fact, experienced before. But now, I had time to really cultivate being
with those frequencies in which I could receive communication from other
teachers in nonphysical realms.

I began to feel the great Love of God as I’d never felt it before. It
came, not just as a thought or an inspiration or a fleeting feeling, but
it came to seep down, if you will — and here I speak metaphorically —
but a seeping down through my Mind and through the cells of the body and
through the nervous system of the body. It came to be grounded, if you
will, throughout my whole being. The deep peace, the perfect trust, the
recognition that I was not alone, that I had everything I ever needed,
because I was One with God.

So there were many states of bliss and of ecstasy, many states of
transcending identification with the body and suddenly being transported
to other realms and other worlds. Pictures of the rest of my life’s path
began to emerge, as though coming up out of the soil of the busyness of
my mind and all the things — just like you — that I had to do just to
take care of daily affairs. None of it was there to disturb me. And the
*deeper* purpose began to reveal itself.

And I heard the Voice of my Father speak to me on what you would know as
about the thirty-seventh day. And the Voice came clearly from around me
and within me, saying unto me,

> You are My Beloved Son in whom I am well pleased.

And suddenly, I realized the Truth that is true always:

> God loves me.<br/>
> I need do nothing.<br/>
> I am as my Father created me to be.

And the opinions of the world dissolved out of my field of awareness, my
energy field, if you will. And I began to be fully stabilized in what
you might call an *enlightened state of mind*. I no longer identified
myself as the son of Joseph. I identified myself as the Son of God.

So that is a synopsis of what I experienced during my pilgrimage and my
fasting. The forty days and forty nights, by the way, was a
*numerological representation* that was very important in the schools of
thought in which I was reared. It represented a time of birthing,
experience, and disillusion. It’s like a cycle — forty days and forty
nights — to be taken more metaphorically than literally. And when I
returned, all things had been made new and different. Jeshua ben Joseph
had, indeed, journeyed to the desert, but the *Son of God* is who
returned. Therefore, beloved friend, occasionally, give yourself
permission to fast from the habits you have created.

