---
title: "WOH Lesson Seven - Question Two"
contents: "woh"
---

### Way of the Heart, Lesson Seven: Question Two

What is the difference between a twin flame and soul mate?
Please describe the importance of bringing two whole people to a
relationship and maintaining uniqueness while creating synergy.

---

### Answer

It would not be appropriate to say that you can *create* synergy.
Nor would it be appropriate to say that you can *create* genuine
individuality. What you can create and cultivate is the willingness to
be wholly committed to *allowing* every last trace or obstacle to the
presence of Love to be dissolved from within you. Synergy and genuine
individuality arise from your devotion to being unceasingly open and
receptive to the Love of God. Like a flower bursts forth from a seed
well planted, both individuality and synergy in a *holy relationship*,
which is where only synergy can be found&hellip; these things arise from
the *receiving* of Love, the *allowing* of Love, the *remembrance* of that
Love.

What is the difference between what are called twin flames and soul
mates? First, the only difference is a matter of definition. The concept
of twin flame was given by a friend of mine as a way of assisting minds
to see that there is an aspect of them that is uniquely and profoundly
linked to something that is as much them as the self they think they are
is, that has become fragmented, that what was whole became apparently
fragmented, and, therefore, mind becomes imbalanced.

The idea was to create a story line in which the mind, so attuned to
seeking for fulfillment outside of itself, would, at least, begin to
desire that which symbolizes the movement into wholeness, the linking
together of the male and female energies within the consciousness. At
the risk, of course, that some minds would actually believe that to
discover and find one’s twin flame requires finding another personality
in a body. And yet, because in Reality that fragmentation has never
occurred, you need not go any further, in Truth, than your own
awareness, your own beingness, to discover that that one is still within
you. And you can not be separate from that one at all.

It may be that in the field of time, you, as a consciousness, will need
to have the experience of attracting one who seems to be in another
body, so that you can come together. But that is more the fruit of *your*
belief that you *are* the body than of some objective reality. For in
Reality, the Truth is one. Separation does not exist. Period.

And for soul mates? Same story. It can be appropriate to use those terms
to describe to some minds what they’re experiencing, as a way of giving
and understanding that allows them to relax and get on with it. It is
also true that within the drama of the dream of separation, there are
souls — fragments of awareness, if you will — that have danced together
and played together and have never lost the sense of union or love with,
and for, one another. And therefore, over a period of *time* and the
creation of *specialness*, those seeming two souls spark something within
one another. They recognize the Truth in the core of the other, because
they never really lost it, as they may have successfully lost it in
other relationships. And, therefore, it is . . . hmm-m . . . it
occasionally happens when two such that are on the path of awakening
require coming back together, in space and time, to spark, to re-spark
the commitment necessary to heal the sense of separation and to awaken
from the delusion that a separate self has ever existed.

This means that you are not in need of *anyone* to be whole. It also means
that when you discover that wholeness within yourself, you will be free,
if you wish, to enter into relationship with anyone you might choose,
and who would choose you. Hopefully, it will come from a place of
holiness and freedom, and not fear and specialness. For the latter leads
to pain that must yet be healed. The former leads to ongoing creativity
and enjoyment.

It is only when two who are whole come together, having looked within
and *truly understood* that *there is no lack* and, therefore, *no need*, that
the power of creativity can flow through that entity. And any such
committed relationship creates another entity, and gives birth to that
which reflects the Truth, so that it can be seen by others who abide in
space and time.

Do not attach *specialness* to the concept of twin flame or soul mate. If
anything, remember that your *soul mate* is your Creator. Everybody else
is your *friend*.

