---
title: "WOH Lesson Eight - Question One"
contents: "woh"
---

### Way of the Heart, Lesson Eight: Question One

During a period of higher consciousness, I was aware of a
presence that encompassed individuals. It was plain to me that it
performed a function of guiding the person into appropriate experiences.
I’m not clear if this is what you call The Holy Spirit. It seemed to be
like an Oversoul of the person. Would you please clarify this presence
and the Holy Spirit?

---

### Answer

Beloved friend, the answer to be given fully would require some
complexity and a great expanse of your time. For there are many
qualities or nuances of experience within consciousness, what you would
call “higher consciousness,” though personally, I know of no such higher
or lower. There is merely *awareness of*, which is what consciousness is.

What I have called as the *Holy Spirit* is not an *entity*. It is a *form of
energy*. I’ve called it before *right-mindedness*, which merely means Mind
that is operating in alignment with unlimitedness, aligned with the Mind
of God. Therefore, what is required, by way of guidance or knowledge,
simply flows in an unimpeded way. The Holy Spirit is that aspect of
one’s own Mind that is, indeed, and has always remained aligned with the
Mind of God. Therefore, it would be very appropriate to say that The
Holy Spirit is as your Oversoul, if you will. It is an aspect of your
own beingness given and shared equally by all. The Comforter, The Holy
Spirit, is right-mindedness, correct seeing, right alignment.

In the experience that you had, it was a very valid experience. You
weren’t coloring what you were experiencing at all. You were just
witnessing it. It would be very appropriate to say that you were,
indeed, seeing, perceiving, feeling, what you can call the Oversoul, an
aspect of one’s soul. And yet, at the same time, it was and is, remains
the presence of the Holy Spirit, that part of the Spirit of that being
that has remained whole always. Often what is called guidance, those
little intuitive nudges, the clear pictures and visions, the feelings
throughout the body, emanate from that part of your own
right-mindedness. It seems to be speaking to you from another place only
because you have not yet cultivated the quality of understanding that
that is more you than the you that you thought was you.

Higher consciousness — there is no such thing. There is only the
remembrance and the recognition of what is true always. Yes, you can
constrict yourself into what you call lower consciousness, but what’s
present? Consciousness, the free will choice and the use of unlimited
power to generate experience for yourself. That doesn’t sound very low
to me at all. It is infinite. It’s just that perhaps tomorrow, you might
not make that same choice again. But it does not make it lower. Lower
and higher are a judgment.

There is Love and fear, but I’ve never said that fear is *lower* than
Love. It is merely a choice. And *from choice comes experience*. And you
are free to gather to yourself whatever form of experience you wish —
that which expresses Love or fear. But underneath each of them, the
power to choose remains one and the same — infinite forever, unstoppable
forever — given to you freely by a Creator Who loves you, Who loves you
so much that you are given perfect freedom.

