---
title: "WOH Lesson Ten - Question Three"
contents: "woh"
---

### Way of the Heart, Lesson Ten: Question Three

Can you talk about initiations, and passing through them, and,
then, having similar energies represent themselves again at a different
level of the spiral?

---

### Answer

Beloved friend, you’ve already done all that needs to be said.
Initiations are those experiences which you cannot formally set up ahead
of time. You can have the commitment, the intention, the dedication to
awakening and healing and birthing Christ. Then you let the Holy Spirit
take care of the details. Those details become, at times, *windows,
doorways, initiations*.

To use a very simple example, imagine one who is sitting at the feet of
a master learning the grand art of deep meditation. Then, one day the
master says,

> Oh, by the way, I need you to fly from the Himalayas to New York City to
> delivery a letter. Would you mind doing that?

No problem.

And the student takes the letter and gets on the plane — after spending
sixteen years in the cave in the Himalayas — and goes to New York City.
*Initiation time*. Can that student draw on what he has learned to be at
peace in this new world? Hmm?

Now, it is very true that the process by which you let yourself awaken
to the reality that ascension is already over with, carries you through
the spiral of time and through dimensions and worlds. And so you will
often come back around to experience similar energies that you
experienced before. But now *you* are *different*. There is more of you that
can embrace those energies being presented to you. The initiation comes
in that because the old energies presenting themselves once had a
certain effect, the first thing that they will kick up in your
consciousness is the old effect, as a memory.

The *initiation* comes in this: Will you recognize that you are free to
choose *differently*, or will you let the *old* association, the *old* memory,
*dictate* your choice of perception and behavior? When the old memory, the
old reactive pattern, is that which dictates your choice, you have
failed your initiation. And when you fail a course, you must repeat it.

But when you look at it and say,

> Oh, there are those energies again. I used to be very judgmental here. I
> used to flee. This time, I’m going to stay. I’m going to breathe. I’m
> going to use this as an opportunity to teach only Love, to extend
> forgiveness, whatever the lesson may be. Because there’s more of me
> available, I am safe to turn and embrace what once defeated me.

Now, you may not break off the entire chunk. Or you may--you may be done
with it. And you’ll know that you’re done with it, because the next time
you come around in this spiral and the world presents to you that old
energy, you’ll see right through it. And there will be no reactive
pattern, whatsoever. You’ll merely look and say,

> Oh, yes. I’ve been there before. It’s boring to me now.

The new pattern will simply guide your way — the pattern of forgiveness,
the pattern of Love, the pattern of being at peace, no matter what the
world seems to be doing. If one is projecting on you, whereas before you
may have been in fear, then when you come around (you’ve succeeded in
your initiation), and one projects their things on you, you merely sit
and *see through* the delusion of consciousness that your brother on
sister is living in. And you see the Christ within them. And quietly,
you bless them, in order to bless yourself.

Initiations are what time is all about. Do you feel complete with that?.

*Response*: Uh-huh. Thank you. Done with questions.

*Jeshua*: Hmm! We will see. Remember, beloved friend, *there is a place
within you that already contains all answers*. The day will come when you
trust that *so much* that you’ll no longer even be interested in spending
the time to ask me. We speak of questions you would ask for yourself,
not as a service to others.

And so, with that, we’ll let your bodies have their “breaks,” and then
put them back together, and we will continue.

Amen.

