---
title: "WOH Lesson Eleven - Question Two"
contents: "woh"
---

### Way of the Heart, Lesson Eleven: Question Two

I understand that the path of the poor and oppressed is their
path. However, when and how will they understand, comprehend, that they
are not victims? And how can they, too, participate in embracing
ascension? Do we have a responsibility to bring the message, help them
spiritually and physically to throw off the bonds? I feel a need to
share the Love. How is this to be done?

---

### Answer

Beloved friend, when you look upon one who you would perceive as
poor, hungry or oppressed, first *pause* and look within yourself. What
part of *you* is feeling poor? What part of you perceives yourself as
hungry? Where within your own being do you feel oppressed? And then take
steps to rectify these perceptions by healing your life of their
energies. When you look, then, upon another again, always cultivate
first the ability to see the very essence of their soul. For they are
pure consciousness, pure divinity. They are like a sunbeam to the sun,
yet given perfect free will choice. Their journey has been as long as
yours and as varied. Therefore, when you look upon them, see them in,
and held by, the Light of God.

Why is this important? It is not just mental gymnastics. For, as you see
another, you will see yourself. And as you see yourself, so, too, will
your brother come to see you. If you wish to help another be lifted up
out of their misperception that suffering is a requirement, then be you,
therefore, *committed* to being the *embodiment* of one who has awakened to
the *Truth* and *lives it*, who *breathes* it, who *acts* it, who *thinks* it, who
*talks* it without ceasing!

Now, when will they come, those that you perceive to be oppressed? And
rest assured, in any given moment, when you look upon who’s sitting by
the wall on the sidewalk with a little tin cup, saying,

> I need some money,

you need only go within and ask the Holy Spirit,

> Is it appropriate, now, for me to render any form of service to this, my
> brother or sister?

The answer will not be hidden from you.

Again, that returns us to the point of not thinking for yourself. But
turning all decision over to the one Teacher and Guide given unto you,
the bridge between the Love of the Father and the place of your soul:
the Holy Spirit. When will they arise from their slumber? Beloved
friend, when did *you* arise from *yours*? You may not remember that hour
and that day, but there was a moment from within your consciousness — it
may not even have been in this incarnation — when something *changed*, and
a decision was made not to accept limitation, not to accept the pain and
the guilt of perceiving yourself as separate from the Source of your
creation.

Therefore, know well that not you, *no one*, not even I, can force another
to arise. And no one can do it *for* another. You can, of course, listen
to the Comforter’s guidance, so that Love is extended through you
appropriately in each and every moment. And then, release yourself from
being attached to that extension, whatever it may be — whether it be a
golden coin, or a meal, or a new Mercedes. It doesn’t matter. It might
be just a gentle smile. For as you choose to extend Love, by first
abiding in the Reality that you are the *presence* of Love, having been
made in God’s image, you provide for your brother or sister the
*opportunity* to recognize the presence of Love and *decide anew* for him or
herself.

And if you’re guided to feed them, then prepare them a meal. Let them
eat it, but be not attached to the fruit of that meal. See their
essence, love them, and live *your life* in fulfillment. Far too many seek
to assist others when all it does is truly *oppress* them, because it does
not empower them to take responsibility for the choices that they have
made and the effects that have come from them.

Do not just give money indiscriminately to those that say,

> Oh, I’m broke. Do you have an extra $5?

Go within and ask,

> Am I just in my neediness to be a helper and a fixer? Can I surrender
> this and just ask Holy Spirit, “What would you have me do or say? I am
> completely unattached to my need to be of service.”

When will they arise and know ascension? When they decide to, just like
you did. And how can you extend Love? Beloved friend, *by giving that
Love first to yourself*. For, if you are not fed deeply, you cannot feed
another. Therefore, lay up for yourselves treasures which are in Heaven.
That is, cultivate higher consciousness. *Cleanse* and *purify* your
communication device, the body. Make it as *radiant* and as *beautiful* and
as *healthy* as you wish it to be. Create abundance in your own life. Feel
rich and wealthy in God’s Love, so that your cup can organically and
naturally *overflow*.

If there are two that are hungry, it is wise that one arise and learn to
feed himself. Then the Holy Spirit can use your gifts, use your power,
to assist in *genuine service* to others.

