---
title: "WOH Lesson Eleven - Question Three"
contents: "woh"
---

### Way of the Heart, Lesson Eleven: Question Three

Jeshua, how does one teach a young child peace and Love when
they’re acting out their fear and anger?

---

### Answer

Beloved friend, this could, indeed, be a whole year’s tape
series in itself. However, for the sake of this hour, we would say this
unto you: Remember well that when you perceive a child acting out their
anger, their fear, whatever it may be, first, ask yourself: Are you sure
it’s *theirs*, just because it is being expressed where their body seems
to be? For be of assuredness, that children come into this world
sparkling clean. They are very clear — *very clear* and *very, very
sensitive*. Therefore, if there are emotions that the parents are not
dealing with within themselves, if there is lack of communication
between the parents, if there is anger that has been repressed in the
mother or the father, then indeed, *the child will know it*, and often
will begin to unconsciously act it out, since nobody else is bothering
to, shall we say, “clear the decks” and be honest. Therefore first ask
yourself: How do you know it’s their anger? Ask the Holy Spirit,

> What is the source of this?

The answer will not be hidden.

Now, how to help them? Where you perceive anger in another, first make
sure that *you* are clear of anger within yourself. Then, as you look upon
the child, remember that that child is *perfectly free now*. Ask of
yourself: Does their anger, their acting out, push your buttons? Can you
give them the space and the freedom to act out that anger, to move that
energy in a way that is healthful and helpful? Can you allow them to do
so? And convey to them that,

> This looks like fun! Maybe I’ll join you!

And start to move your body the way they’re moving their body. Make the
sounds that they are making. And tell them straight out like an adult.
Stop talking gibberish to children, for they are as old as you are the
moment they are born. Tell them in perfectly clear adult language,

> Anger is perfectly okay. Let’s get into it and see how it feels in the
> body.

Have fun with it. Make it as charged as possible. And you will find
that, in a very short moment, the anger will shift, and the children
will begin to feel a sense of play. For they will know that they have
been *accepted*, and that there is nothing wrong with them the way that
they are. Just because they don’t conform to adult perceptions does not
make them wrong.

How, then, do you teach them of peace? By being peace yourself. How,
then, do you teach them to cultivate peace? By not hiding from them your
own emotions, by living honestly — not hurtfully, but honestly.

> Yes, I’m feeling angry right now! It makes my stomach tight and my
> shoulders crinkle up into my ears. It makes my knuckles get white. And I
> just want to stamp my feet!

Well, *do it* right there in front of the child! And, as *you* start to feel
better, you can smile and say,

> See how easy it is? I think I’ll just be at peace now.

Therefore, always remember that the greatest of gifts you can give to a
child is to be the living embodiment and model of one who does not deny
or repress their humanity.

Beloved friend, each relationship is a teaching and learning
relationship. Therefore, when a child seems to be acting out their
anger, first give them the space to do it, and *observe* the child. How do
they move their body? Do they just live in their head? Or is their whole
being involved in it? What can you learn from the child?

And when the anger has subsided, *always, always, always* wrap your arms
around them, at least metaphorically. Let them know that you love them.
Let them know they’re okay. Let them know that yes you too know that
sometimes it’s a little hard to be in the world and that you thank them
for being present in your life, because you are committed to learning
*from them* as much as you are committed to *teaching them.*

Cease — everyone that could hear these words upon your planet — *cease
treating children like second class, incapable people*. *Their
consciousness is clear and bright!* Talk to them like an adult. Live like
a mature adult in your relationships with them. Give this a try, beloved
friend. There is much here for you, if you will but cultivate the
treasure within these words.

