---
title: "WOH Lesson Twelve - Question Three"
contents: "woh"
---

### Way of the Heart, Lesson Twelve: Question Three

You had mentioned you’re coming through 2,003, or so, other
people. And there have been several people out there claiming to have
channeled St. Germain. And we have been told by Jonah that nobody does
channel St. Germain. They only receive thought forms. So the question
is: Are there people out there who are authentically channeling our
mutual friend, St. Germain?

---

### Answer

You’re asking what is called a technological, philosophical
question. You are doing what is called the “mincing of words.” It is the
*effect* that matters.

We would suggest here for you that This One, my friend who was once my —
almost my &ndash; executioner&hellip;  that, indeed, is symbolic for you. For who
do *you* perceive as your *executioner*? That One communicates with many.
For That One has long since learned to assume responsibility for those
assigned to Him. That One does communicate through thought forms to a
*multitude* of beings. That One, by the way, still pops in and manifests a
body whenever He wishes &ndash; just to spend a few moments on a park bench
with an old friend. This One lives in complete unlimitedness.

Therefore, to the degree that those minds receiving This One’s thought
forms are continually at work keeping their garden well-cultivated and
free of egoism do, indeed, reflect very accurately that which This One
would seek to transmit. As you would understand that which you are
calling channeling, in which This One’s consciousness blends with the
temporarily-crystallized form that you call a certain individual, in
order to speak through the mind, the mental field, the language
structure of that one to others, This One, my friend, does indeed do
that, from time to time. But as you would perceive it, the number of
those through whom that effective blending is occurring is very, very
small. We would say that you could count the number as less than the
fingers on two hands.

But there are a multitude who receive This One’s thought forms, and a
multitude who do a very, very good job of transmitting those thought
pictures, those images, those thoughts, into a language that conveys His
message to those in your world. Does that help you in that regard?

**Response**: Much.

**Jeshua**: Always what matters is this: Anyone who serves as what your
world is now referring to as a *channel* has the very same work in front
of them, constantly, that anyone does — the work of constant
self-cultivation, surrender, allowing, trusting, letting go, letting go
of egoic consciousness, letting go of need for specialness, staying in
observation of how one is truly being. Surrendering, surrendering,
surrendering.

> I’m not the maker and the doer.

I’m not the one who knows anything.

I need nothing from anyone.

Who do I need to let off the hook?

How deeply can I master forgiveness?

And all of the rest. That is primary. And, in fact, the relationship,
such as the one between my beloved brother and myself, is one that
accentuates the need for that one to practice these things.

We would also say here that it is possible, and Germain is one of these
who can overcome the impediments within the consciousness of another to
get their thought form well planted, well received. So it’s kind of a
mutual thing. The channel must always be involved in the same work that
everyone’s involved in, because *everyone is a channel*. And nothing is
manifested through them, save the frequencies that they are allowing to
make a home in their mind &hellip; those that channel my beloved friend, as
you would call Him, as St. Germain &hellip; although, where we abide,
sometimes we joke about the “saint” part of that. Now, those that are
channeling Him, then, are no different than you. They need to keep doing
their own inner work. Their goal should not be to rest, but to
continually desire to be the embodiment of Christ Itself. Not to rest on
their laurels, so to speak.

At the same time, rest assured that we are capable of ensuring that the
purity of that vibration be maintained. Because, when it isn’t, we
simply pull away. If egoic consciousness begins to take root in any
channel, we simply, shall we say, “put it on a shelf” and wait until
later. And it is only *you* who can discern whether what is being spoken
is flowing from us or is merely the repetition of a record that has
already been implanted in that one. Then they’ve reached a certain limit
of their own growth and we have departed. And you are well aware of
that. It is a vibration that you sense, even in the cellular structure
of the body.

Does that help you in regard to that question?

**Response**: Yes. Thank you.

**Jeshua**: Indeed. So have you any other questions?

**Response**: No.

**Jeshua**: Rest assured, unto you we would say that, in the weeks to come,
a multitude of questions you did not know exist will come into the
surface of the consciousness.

**Response**: I’m sure.

**Jeshua**: For only one reason: so that you can embrace them with the
answers that you already know. And, thereby, be freed of the past.

**Response**: Amen.

**Jeshua**: Very well then, as you have spoken: Amen.

