---
title: "WOK Lesson Three - Question One"
contents: "wok"
---

### Way of Knowing, Lesson Three: Question One

How do I not keep one love for myself and yet continue loving myself?

---

### Answer

Indeed, beloved friend, it is a question well asked about a very
subtle, but important, point as one comes to live a fully Christed Life.
When I said not to keep one love for yourself, I was indicating that the
egoic mind looks upon forms of any kind, whether it be person, place, or
thing, and projects its love onto it, and then misperceives it as a
source of Love.

There is nothing outside of you that serves as a source for Love. One of
the great tricks of the mind, in the human experience, is that when the
mind experiences Love, it forgets that it is experiencing It because it
is making a decision to do so. It believes, then, that something outside
of itself has had the power to change its own state. But this is not so.
Therefore, those "loves" become attachments. They are idols. And that
would be another word to use for the love that you should not keep for
yourself.

Make not an idol of that through which you've experienced Love. Make not
an idol of the great physical lover who gives you ten thousand orgasms
in a single night &ndash; hmm? Do not keep that love for yourself. Do not seek
to possess that one for your own selfish reasons. Do not seek to possess
the money that comes to you and to hoard it up in barns to save against
a rainy day. For that will only insure that you will experience a rainy
day.

Keep not one love for yourself. How, then, can you experience self-love
if you're not keeping one love for yourself? Beloved friend, the answer
is just the opposite. How can you experience self-love when you are
caught up in trying to possess the loves that you would see as outside
of yourself? Self-love requires surrendering attachment to the illusions
that you have formed about those things &ndash; persons, places, or things &ndash;
that you think are sources of Love. Think about it. It’s a
hundred-and-eighty-degree turn.

You do not love yourself, you see, by bringing more of the things into
your life that you say you love. That is a great mistake. If you say,

> Oh, I absolutely love shoes.

You will then see that "shoeness" is a source that has a magical power
that can trigger a change of heart and mind in you. And you will then
take the dollars that flow to you, and every time your energy drops,
you'll think,

> Oh, shoes!

And you'll run out and you'll buy yet another pair to get a temporary
fix.

You will think you have loved yourself by giving the *things* to yourself
that you think you love. That is not truly self-love, although it is a
great beginning point when working with someone who is totally insane;
that is, totally caught up in egoic consciousness &ndash; so much so that they
won't even allow themselves to enjoy their egoic state of consciousness.
It is very wise, then, to say to one,

> Oh, you like ice cream? Very well, give yourself total permission to
> have all the ice cream you want.

It's not the ice cream that matters. It's the act of recognizing and
re-cultivating the ability to *feel* and *receive enjoyment* &ndash; that's all.

But as that begins to mature, you begin to see through the transparency
of the things of the world. You come to see that you can give yourself
enjoyment by taking a deep breath, stretching the arms out with the
palms up, and receiving Love. Nothing has to change around you. You
don't have to eat anything. You don't have to sex the body. You don't
have to accomplish anything great in the world. You need only receive
the presence of Love.

Self-love, then, actually comes to grow the more you release attachment
to the idols of love that you have created in the world. A woman who
"loves" her garden in the back yard because *it* gives *her* so much
enjoyment &ndash; not quite true. She *decides* to bring enjoyment to the act of
gardening, while the neighbor next door can merely have a garden to try
to keep up with the Jones's, but hates every moment of it.

It is not the garden that creates joy. It is the *decision* to bring joy
to the activity of gardening. And then, you see, the lady can never
leave her house, can never move away, because,

> Oh, my god! I can't give up my garden. It's the source of my greatest
> joy!

And that woman stays in the same house until the day she dies, pushing
away her dreams of seeing Europe. Pushing away her dreams of swimming
with a dolphin. Why? Because the garden has become the thing with the
power to give her joy.

> Hold not one love for your self.

Let it go. Let it become transparent. Do not be attached to it. Learn to
recognize that in any given moment, when you are experiencing Love, it's
because you've *decided* to. *You* are the one who has brought enjoyment to
the context of the moment. The thing, in itself, is neutral. Power is
not outside of you.

How, then, can you let go of the loves of the world that you have
created and still love yourself? By holding what I've just shared with
you, by sitting with it, by putting it into practice, by recognizing,
more and more deeply, that when you are doing what you love, it's
because you have first decided to open your heart in Love, and then take
action. If you love to sing, it is the Love that is present first. And
then you sing. The singing doesn't cause love for yourself.

Therefore, indeed, beloved friend, contemplate well what I have shared
with you. For the great paradox of the mystical Christed Mind is to see
that there's nothing to hold onto in the world because there is no
world. There is only the Reality of Love extending Itself through the
temporary context of form. If you find yourself loving to make music,
know that it is *from Love* that you are *choosing* to be a music maker,
temporarily.

That should be sufficient for now.

