---
title: "WOK Lesson Ten - Question Two"
contents: "wok"
---

### Way of Knowing, Lesson Ten: Question Two

Can you explain more about the free will of children,
because it often appears that they are at the mercy of their parents'
choices?

---

### Answer

Remember that in the bigger picture there is only One Mind,
playing out the dream of separation and awakening to the Reality of
Love. Now, in the complexity of this journey there is that which is
called "karma," would be your word. There is that which is the truth
that the sins of the fathers are visited unto the third and fourth
generation. That is, the *energetic patterns of perception* are handed,
one mind to another, until some mind begins to awaken. When you are
asleep, and lost in darkness, you will take hold of any hand extended to
you. Why? Because your desire is to survive.

The desire, by the way, to survive in the physical form is but an
analog, or an expression, or a metaphor, for the *soul's desire to
survive in God*, to awaken to the Truth of the Christ. I've said to you
many times that everything is just a symbol for the spiritual journey.
So therefore, when you look upon your children, all the children of this
planet, *of course* there is a stage in which they seem to be influenced
by the psychic field of the parents, peers, teachers. This recapitulates
the fall into the dream of separation and the choice of every soul to
awaken. But awakening requires the embrace of humanity's shadow side, or
darkness. You cannot embrace what you do not first own as a part of you.
Therefore, the soul takes *on* the shadow, takes *on* the cloak of the dream
of separation, and then *decides* whether it will be a *victim* of that, or
whether it will be transfigured *in spite of it*, and, therefore, overcome
the world.

Each soul, in its particular expression, has its own unique dynamics, in
terms of how it has fallen under the spell, and how it is choosing to go
about requiring or learning the lessons it desires in its way of
releasing, bit by bit, fear of the extraordinary Truth of its being.

So, from one perspective, it looks like a child is a poor victim. That
is part of the game of separation being played out. In Reality, it is
not possible to be a victim. *It is not possible to be a victim.* Nothing
can come unless it is called.

*The experience of every child is by the sovereign power of that soul.*
And the lessons that it is garnering are rich and varied. This is why
you cannot compare anyone's journey. What you can do is *honor* everyone's
journey. Never look upon another and say,

> I'm so sorry you've had that experience.

Rather, learn to ask of them,

> What has this <span class="tr_normal">taught</span> you? How will you choose
> to <span class="tr_normal">respond</span> to this condition? Will you choose
> victimhood, or will you choose transfiguration?

Which is to say,

> Will you accept the power within you to heal, or will you require,
> through lack of forgiveness, the continuation of your belief that you
> are small, that you are unworthy. Which would you choose to create?

I'm not saying do not be compassionate. Quite to the contrary, *passion*
means to *enter into passion with*. Compassion, community &ndash; to join with,
in passion. But empathy should never be sympathy.

Trust, then, your children and the path that they choose. Indeed, learn
to love them as an aspect of your own soul. And yet, give them complete
freedom to choose. It is extremely important. The sovereignty of the
soul is sacred above all Creation.

Does that help you in regard to your question?

*Response*: Yes.

*Jeshua*: You see, often when an adult looks upon the plight of a child,
and *feels* helpless, or *feels* that this is wrong, or *feels anger*, all
they are doing is expressing a tender point that has not been healed
within *themselves* regarding their own childhood experiences. It is an
*edge* being revealed to *them* that calls for deeper healing and
forgiveness in *themselves*. For only those that can forgive themselves,
only those that have healed within themselves, can, indeed, be of any
value in helping another to heal.

I once said unto you that those who speak and work for peace, but do not
have peace in their own hearts, accomplish nothing. It is no different
than working with a child who's been abused, who's been hungry, who's
going through turmoil with peers, whatever it is. If it is activating
*your emotion*, look well to see what might yet remain unhealed within
*yourself*. In other words, take the log out of your own eye, before you
attempt to help another with the speck of dust in their own &ndash; that looks
like a log because you are projecting what is unhealed within yourself.
Only the *healed mind* can assist in the healing of another.

We'll let that answer, then, be sufficient for now.

*Response*: Thank you.

*Jeshua*: Indeed, you are most welcome.

And unto all of you then, again, blessings and peace be with you always.

