---
title: "WOT Lesson Six - Question Two"
contents: "wot"
---

### Way of Transformation, Lesson Six: Question Two

Then this is a metaphor&mdash;vulnerability. Did you learn that on
the cross? Was that the message of the cross? Vulnerability and
invincibility?

---

### Answer

Yes. For you see, vulnerability is the willingness to embrace
the world as it is, to reveal yourself to the world, to give up
constriction and self-protection, which carries you through to
invincibility. And another way of saying it is that the meaning, or the
teaching, of my own personal experience of crucifixion&hellip; and it was
only my learning experience; there’s no need for anyone to repeat it.
And frankly, there are many more gentle ways to awaken. Another way of
putting it is that I made the decision to discover my power to rest as
the *presence of Love* in the most *hideous* conditions that I could imagine
and bring forth to myself in that time frame. I made myself *vulnerable*
to the experience for a perfectly *selfish* reason: to return, finally and
fully, to perfect invincibility, perfect invulnerability--the presence
of Love. And Love embraces all things, heals all things, trusts all
things, and thereby, immediately [snaps fingers] transcends all things.

Yes. Although, beloved brother, it does appear that for you, crucifixion
may yet be necessary. [Laughter] Merely crucify the memories that,
because of your prayer, are now being helped to be brought up into your
memory. Crucify them with the Love of Christ. Allow. Allow. Allow.
Embrace. Feel. Bless. Transcend. After all, what else do you have to do
with your time?

So, then, is there anything else? We already know that you are okay. The
only question is, will *you* embrace that reality?

Therefore, indeed, I will take my leave of you. As my brothers and
sisters who are with me, shall we say, grant me permission to be with
you in the answering of these questions, as the one to whom there are
many who still require personal relationship with me. Perfectly okay, I
don’t mind at all.

Remember then, who you are. And wherever you are in this moment, why not
drop your seriousness? Just for the fun of it! And simply hold the
thought,

> I abide in my Father’s Kingdom. And only Love reigns here. Thanks be to
> God!

[Laughter]

That is the effect. Indeed!

Be you, therefore, at peace, once again, beloved friends. We will
continue again when you have had your thirty days.

Amen.

