---
title: "WOT Lesson Seven - Question One"
contents: "wot"
---

### Way of Transformation, Lesson Seven: Question One

Jeshua states that He has never enlightened anyone. Yet the
Sufi and Hindu traditions, including a number of gurus, state that they
do most of the work for one person. They say that once someone
surrenders to them, through their own God Consciousness, they can bring
that being to Oneness. There are also traditions which state that one
must look into the eyes of a true guru to become enlightened. Let’s face
it, it does sound quicker and easier. Is this a different state of
awareness? Was this tradition meant for a different era?

---

### Answer

Beloved friend, we are, indeed, quite pleased that you have
asked this question. And by way of background, I will begin by again
sharing with you that when I walked upon this world as a man, and
entered into that pathway that took me finally into the abode of my
Father, into perfect enlightenment or peace, perfect transcendence of
the *illusion* of the maker and doer, I, too, went through a process of
learning how to manipulate subtle energies, and therefore, created the
perception that *I had* the power to *change* another.

I have already shared with you, in other ways, that often this would
bring about what would be perceived as physical healings. Yet, in those
documents that came to be known as your scriptures, the Holy Bible,
there are, indeed, stories of healings, but not much follow-up was done.
And in those cases where follow-up was done, those aspects have been
deleted from your scriptures. For rest assured, I *was able* to manipulate
subtle energies of the body-mind, in order to *change* an *outpicturing*.
But often, within a matter of hours, days, or weeks, or at the very
outset, a month or two, the old outpicturing or pattern would show up
again. *Except in a few.* And what was the difference? The difference was
that in the *few*, my interaction with them was recognized by *them* as
being an outpicturing of the Truth of their own being. Therefore,
correction occurred, not because of what I was doing, but because *they*
chose in that moment to recognize and accept the Truth about themselves.
*They claimed complete responsibility* for changing what they were
outpicturing in their body.

I learned a humble lesson through that process, and went deeper into an
understanding of what the world is and how mind works. I came to see,
then, that because all mind, and all minds therefore, are made in God’s
image, *free will cannot be usurped*! Therefore, even one such as myself,
who had studied long and trained hard under many, many masters of subtle
energies, I who had gone into the depths of my own being, and had faced
my own shadows, and had surrendered so deeply into the Love of God—
even *I had* no power over the free will of another mind.

This actually took me into deeper freedom. For I came to realize that
what I was doing in my life was designed only to teach *me*. I became
perfectly *divinely selfish*, wanting God *fully* for myself, recognizing
that that required not that I try to *do things* in order to know God, but
that I simply *surrender* into God. And if it be God’s Will, my cup would
overflow.

When I returned from India to begin my ministry, that idea was not my
own. My idea was to remain in a certain valley in what you call Kashmir,
and simply abide in a deep state of prayer until the body dissolved. But
in that state of surrender, the Voice of my Father spoke, saying,

> Beloved Son, there are other minds that I would reach through you.
> Return to your homeland.

I arose from my prayer and began the journey.

Beloved friend, there is only one Guru—the Comforter, the Holy Spirit—one
Teacher, one Ray of Light that corrects the mind. That Guru, that Ray of Light,
has *already* been placed *within you*, from the very moment that you
entertained the thought of separation. *Love waits on your welcome* is another
way to say that the Teacher is sitting inside your heart, waiting for you to
become quiet, to learn from the Christ Mind within yourself, to surrender that
That Light might fill you and inform you.

Many traditions have, indeed, grown up as a result of unenlightened
minds watching an event, such as was perceived with me. I was perceived
as the Messiah, the Holy Son of God. And others seemed to awaken and
heal in my presence. Therefore, the unenlightened mind says,

> Well, I couldn’t possibly heal myself or awaken. Therefore, the Messiah
> must have done it to them.

Over a period of time, in many cultures, that perception becomes a
theology, a belief, a ritual, a teaching. And it is passed on,
unthinkingly, from generation to generation, even to the point where
there are some teachers in your world who, much like me, are passing
through their own stages of awakening, and merely believe that the power
is in *them*. And why not? If a multitude give *them* that power, and say,

> We cannot believe that we awaken ourselves. But we’ll come and sit at
> your feet and have enlightenment experiences, and then say you did it to
> us.

Do you see how that begins to operate in a mind that is not yet totally
free? I say this unto you unequivocally: *No one has the power to awaken
you but YOU*!

Now, if you’re perceiving yourself as unawake, that looks like quite a
burden. But remember that this means that the *opposite* is also true. It
means that in *no situation* does anyone have the power to *prevent* you
from being awake. It is much easier, in your world, to use the
opportunity of relationship with unenlightened minds to choose to be
awake, than it is to search for the needle in the haystack, hoping to
find one enlightened mind with the power to save you. Therefore, seek
not for the guru outside of yourself, but begin to use time
constructively. See that each moment of your experience is just another
opportunity to recognize the Truth that is true always,

> Oh, I can choose peace! I am One with God! I wonder how much fun it
> might be just to bring a little Love to this moment?

...by dropping the illusions, the clouds that pass through the sky of
mind that seem to enter your field of awareness—the clouds of
judgment, the clouds of reactivity, the clouds of the perception of the
need to be right.

Beloved friend, whenever you hear again of one who says they have the
power to awaken you, go somewhere else. Turn, shake their dust from your
sandals. They’re not worth your time. When you hear of anyone who says,

> I am merely a lover of God. I can do nothing for you but abide with you
> in the prayer that together we can be the Truth that sets all things
> free.

To *that one*, make haste! And come as an *equal*, for of such is the
Sonship.

I believe that should be sufficient for now. So, it has been a short
hour. And with that one question, there is enough.

Therefore, peace be unto you always.

Amen.

