---
title: "WOT Lesson Nine - Question Four"
contents: "wot"
---

### Way of Transformation, Lesson Nine: Question Four

Can you talk about what the perception of the New Age movement
is regarding ‘up and out,’ riding the ascending current and ignoring
what we call the ‘shadow side,’ and how to balance the...not to be
in denial of the shadow? Can you just discuss that--riding the
ascending and descending currents (in less than ten minutes)?

---

### Answer

Beloved friend, this would be a very good question to devote an
entire hour to, or perhaps several hours. And yet, I will give the
answer to you in two minutes. The only question will be, will you be
able to *realize* that Truth in the seven or eight that are then left to
you? [Laughter]

Here is the answer: *The Seeker must become the Finder.* The desire to
ride the ascending current is a subtle aspect of *seeking experience*. The
heart that is awake embraces *all* things, trusts all things, denies
nothing. And if you are in this world, what you call the ‘shadow’ can be
loved as easily as any ascending mystical experience. The desire to ride
that current is nothing more than the desire to avoid something. If you
know that you are Spirit, there is nowhere to go to. There is only the
loving embrace of that which is, that it might be restored to a moment
through which Love is extended.

Therefore, *embrace* all things, *trust* all things, *allow* all things,
*transcend* all things. That should be sufficient for now. But within it,
there is much to be contemplated.

Did I accomplish it within the two minutes?

*Response*: You did an excellent job.

*Jeshua*: Hmm! It is because I spent so much time riding the ascending current.
[Laughter]. But more than this, it is because I spent time embracing the
sinner, the sin, the illusion of suffering, and bringing Love to my
brothers and sisters--by turning to look at what I thought was
darkness, only to discover that within it was the Light of God, and that
nothing could harm me in any way. *I became free when I stopped seeking
God, and allowed God to find me.*

Therefore, the one who seeks to go *somewhere* is just playing the same
egoic pattern. *Only Love is Real.* And in *that moment* [snaps fingers],
Christ is present. The Atonement is completed. The Master has arisen in
the twinkling of an eye.

So...But again, we want to suggest that you create a context in
which that question can be given much deeper consideration.

So, to those of you present, know that nothing comes by accident. And
you have chosen to set aside your time. You have chosen to set aside
your time to be in this room, not by accident, but because, *already*,
there is a place within you that knows how to listen to the guidance of
your heart. Therefore, *trust that guidance in all things*. You are *not*
alone. And the power of the Love of God is with you even now, and will
be throughout all eternity.

Peace, then, be unto you always.

Amen.

