---
title: "WOT Lesson Nine - Question Three"
contents: "wot"
---

### Way of Transformation, Lesson Nine: Question Three

Please explain more about the paradox of living as one Christ
Consciousness and yet also living in an individuated body and ego.

---

### Answer

Beloved friend, please listen well as we give you the punch line. In
Christed Awareness, it is *impossible* to live as an individuated mind
or ego, since Christed Awareness is becoming established in the
*transcendence* of the old misperception that you are living inside a
body and peering out through it and are, therefore, separated from
others because of the distance between bodies. In Christed Awareness,
you literally feel and know your identity to be *Spirit*. And Spirit
embraces all things. You literally recognize that there is nothing
outside of you.

Yes, it is quite true that the body-mind you once used to be identified
with is still going on. But it has been *translated*. It has been
*transformed* because your perception of it has been corrected. You
realize that your ability to be aware is the very gift of God that
created you in the first place. That power to be aware is the power of
Spirit Itself. Therefore, it is no longer ‘my’ body-mind, ‘my’ egoic
mind, it is just ‘the’ body, ‘the’ mind. And it is given over with every
breath, with every thought, to Spirit.

So, that’s the punch line. As you ask the question, it is impossible.
You cannot live as Christed Mind and still be an individuated body and
ego.

The highest state of consciousness, then, is a state in which perception
has been corrected. And the body-mind walks upon the planet as long as
it lasts, but now, instead of being you, it is a simple tool for Spirit.
You’re no longer identified *as* it, or *with* it. You look at your hands
and your feet, you look at the head, you look at the thoughts that come
and go, and you realize that the body-mind could never possibly have any
purpose or value except that which God gives it. And you have
surrendered ownership. You said,

> Father, it’s pretty evident that I haven’t known how to live happily,
> joyfully, and at peace. I give myself--I give all of this--back to
> You. You use it. And I’ll go where You want me to go. I’ll take the
> carcass, the body, wherever You want it to go. It no longer matters to
> me. I am here only to be at peace and to offer this body-mind as a
> possible way through which Love can be revealed to another, through
> which wisdom can be given to the world. I’m not even attached to that;
> all things are yours.

Therefore, beloved friend, as you go through your day, begin to notice
how you are thinking about the body itself. How many times do you say
‘my’ body, ‘my’ ego, ‘my’ thoughts? Begin to create some distance by
simply saying ‘the’ body, ‘the’ egoic mind (which is really not the
possession of anybody; it’s just a temporary quality of mind that many
beings seem to be sharing), ‘the’ thoughts. If you were sitting next to
your ocean, and you were watching waves arise and fall, would you say,

> That wave is mine and nobody else’s?

Of course not. You would say,

> Oh, there goes a wave.

Can you teach yourself, during the course of your day, to do the same
thing?

> Oh, the body is washing dishes.
> 
> The body is walking upon the grass.
> 
> Oh, there are thoughts passing through the mind.

Can you become the *Witness*, or the observer, of what is arising and
passing away? For the more that you develop the quality of the Witness,
the more the world becomes transparent, and the more you realize that
you are the Watcher of all thoughts. You are the Seer of all things. You
are Spirit. You are like the ocean in which waves arise and pass away.
And you begin to become identified--not as the body, not as the
particular personality or history--you’ll become identified as that
which embraces and trusts and allows all things. You will be Spirit. And
*then* you will know the answer to your question, for it cannot be
answered with the intellect. It can only be *known* and lived directly.

That should give this one pause.

