---
title: "WOT Lesson Eleven - Question One"
contents: "wot"
---

### Way of Transformation, Lesson Eleven: Question One

Each soul has the same purpose, that is, to wake up fully from
separation from God. Yet, within the dream, in space and time, based on
soul experiences and predilections, do we have our own unique purpose?

---

### Answer

No. Do you want an elucidation, or is that sufficient?

*Response*: That’s sufficient. You were the one to tell me to ask this
question.

*Answer*: Indeed. Beloved friend, this is a question that actually serves
to&hellip;it brings up into our awareness something that really serves to
limit the awakening process itself. The *ego* places value on *form* more
than *content*. The egoic mind searches for a *form* of expression which it
hopes will fulfill its perceived purpose, and thereby, grant it what it
wants,

> Ah, I have done it! See how good I am?

*The only purpose of the soul is to awaken*, to allow the transformative
process to occur, so that Christ again reigns supreme in a mind where
fear had created a substitute.

*Content* is what matters. And the more any mind devotes itself to
*content*, the appropriate *forms* merely materialize for it. Why? Because
the universe, or the world you experience, is nothing more than an
outpicturing of the Love of God that is working through the Holy Spirit
to create the contexts that allow *you* to awaken, and, as we said
earlier, to give you contexts in which you can become more and more
skilled as a conduit for the extension of Love.

*Uniqueness*, once again, is an *ego interpretation*. For instance, there is
nothing unique about me showing up as the primary spokesperson for that
which I once referred to as the “Lineage.” There is nothing unique about
this, my beloved brother, who joins with me in this process. It may look
unique to some minds. And some may say,

> Oh, Jeshua. What he’s doing is so unique among all the masters!

That is a projection. All things have one function: the healing of the
Sonship so that Love can be extended *sanely* from the Mind of God through
His Creation, Who is Christ. That’s all. You could see those things as
two sides of one coin.

There’s nothing unique in what I do. There is nothing unique in what you
do. It only appears that you’re in a different place and a different
dimension. And the actions of the *body* make you *think* that what you’re
doing is unique or different from somebody else’s function. *The ego
compares itself to others.* It measures its worthiness by *thinking about*
everybody else’s function. It does not see that it is merely projecting
its own value onto what everybody else is doing.

Only *one thing* is occurring: *mind is waking up*. To give you a picture
that would help you in this, imagine that one baby lays its head down on
a pillow in its crib, and begins to dream. And part of that dream
becomes the process of its own wakefulness, as the first rays of dawn
begin to touch the crib through the open window. One baby, all by
itself, resting in a crib, dreaming a dream, and then stirring itself to
wakefulness.

The Sonship is that one baby. And you participate perfectly within it.
Body-minds not withstanding&mdash;they do come and go, of course. It looks
like there is a multiplicity, but there is only mind. And it is *mind*
that is waking. One purpose&hellip;how can you find uniqueness when there
is only *one* baby in the process of doing one thing&mdash;awakening, giving
up dreams, stepping back into the wakefulness of Reality?

Therefore, to all of you, I want *very much* to encourage you to be very
aware, and very wary of, the tendency within the mind to become
attracted to what looks like a unique function. And the pictures that
the mind gets, the fantasies that it creates about becoming a great
president, about becoming a great anything&mdash;that is always secondary.
And it is the ego that does those things. The mind that is informed by
Love is merely available awake where it happens to find itself, doing
what it happens to be doing. And it *sees clearly* that all power under
Heaven and Earth is flowing through it, and is available in that moment
to serve the one function of the healing and restoration of the Sonship.
Where the body-mind happens to find itself is only secondarily of
importance.

Does that help you in that regard?

*Response*: Yes.

