---
title: "WOT Lesson Six - Question One"
contents: "wot"
---

### Way of Transformation, Lesson Six: Question One

How is vulnerability the sure path to invulnerability?

---

### Answer

Indeed, beloved brother, you will well hear the world tell you
that the path to invulnerability is concealment, is self-protection, is
creating privacy from your brothers and sisters, to find a way to create
a dark and quiet place within your mind to which you can retreat and
find the illusion of safety. Some would go so far as to believe that it
is in the requirement of finding invulnerability for the body, by
walling it up and not venturing out into the world. Many have gone to
monasteries and temples for thousands and thousands of years, thinking
they are seeking God, when, in fact, it is fear that is driving them to
go and hide. Not all, some.

And yet, I say unto you, beloved friend, invulnerability can never rest
on the illusion that separation is possible, but rather, on allowing the
Truth of this one idea to enter your mind: *All minds are joined.* Period.
There is no privacy. And then, to realize this: *The only way to
invulnerability is to dissolve fear.* I’ve share with you that mastery is
a state of fear-less-ness in which nothing of the phenomenal realm
compels you in one direction or another. You merely wait and let the
Holy Spirit decide for you.

The way to dissolve fear is to make yourself as *transparent* as possible
to the world, to your brothers and sisters. And how do you do that?
Well, you could stand upon a street corner and remove all of your
clothing. That would not do it, for you are not the body.

Beloved friend, vulnerability is simply that process of allowing
*intimacy*. And intimacy means “into me see.”

> Here I am. <br>
> I just had a fearful thought come up. <br>
> I’m trembling in my boots as I ask for this raise. <br>
> Sometimes I don’t think I’m ever going to get it right.

&hellip; whatever may be arising in the field of your awareness.

Don’t wait to find someone to give you permission, but realize that
everyone is really, ultimately, doing the same thing as you are--stumbling
their way along to the moment in which they will realize they’ve *suffered
enough* and they want only God. It’s just that you
happened to be there a little ahead of them.

Therefore, use each moment to decide to be vulnerable to your brother or
sister.

> God, I’m really frightened of you right now! <br>
> Do you know that I’ve got this distaste in my being and I’m watching my
> mind say you’re the cause of it? Silly me. <br>
> Sometimes I’m so fearful that I’ll never be enough.

&hellip; Whatever it is. Just decide to be vulnerable. And you will begin
to notice that as you choose to become transparent to yourself and to
others, that something rather odd is happening. The tightness in your
belly, the constriction in your chest, the tightness in your jaw, the
attack thoughts, the judgments, the dark old wounds that you just can’t
seem to release, seem to melt away almost without you noticing them. And
why? Because it is fear that has been holding them in place.

And the practice of vulnerability...you can make it a game. You can
have a great deal of fun with it.

> Humph! I just allowed the gas to pass through the anus. Oh, well!

Begin to make a joke of your own existence. Notice the great humor of it
all and be real about it.

As you come to recognize that everything arising within you is a
perfectly neutral event, and as you’re willing to share it with
yourself, as you’re willing to just open up and say,

> Hey, here I am. Look into me and see. If you want to hate me, hate me.
> If you want to judge me, judge me. If you want to love me, love me.

you will discover that the barrier of fear, which has been as an iron
bar, so to speak, is melting in the sun of your Love.

And therefore, vulnerability brings you through the illusion of fear to
deep self-love, and then to love of all of Creation. And you will
realize that in Love, you are perfectly safe. You are so invulnerable to
the slings and arrows of this illusory world, that you simply look upon
it with compassion, with Love, and with patience. And if a weed shows
up, you merely move it aside, because what you want to delight in is
seeing the Christ in another.

If you fear vulnerability, you merely create the impossibility of ever
tasting the peace of knowing that you are invulnerable to this world.
Begin, then, to practice vulnerability. Open wide and reveal yourself to
your world, to yourself. And if you find fear arising, at least find
what you call a friend and ask,

> Would you do something crazy?

And they’ll say, “What?”

> Would you let me become as vulnerable as possible? It scares me to
> death, but I want to know who I am.

They’ll be, you see, very happy, because that means they don’t have to
do anything. They don’t have to fix you. They don’t have to give you
advice. They don’t have to do anything except *witness* you. And in that
witnessing, they provide for you the space to choose your healing by
becoming perfectly vulnerable.

Practice well, beloved brother. It is a very important question that
you’ve asked. And you’ve asked it because you know the weight of the
fear of vulnerability is growing too much to sustain. Practice well.
Indeed, beloved friend, go to that one that you would know as Reverend
Kay, and suggest this practice be distributed amongst those who come to
practice the *Course in Miracles* with her. Let it become an experiment,
so that a group of twenty people, or so, come together regularly to
simply witness their brother or their sister practicing vulnerability.
That’s all they have to do. And then witness the miracles of healing, of
bonding, of Love, that ensue.

Take this to her, and therefore, to them. And practice well as part of
that group. That should be a sufficient answer for now.

