---
title: "WOH Lesson Six - Question One"
contents: "woh"
---

### Way of the Heart, Lesson Six: Question One

How can I integrate the breath work and techniques that I am
learning this week with your lessons in the *Course in Miracles*?

---

### Answer

Beloved friend, the question comes from a quality of mind that
would perceive a separation between the two. For only what is perceived
as *separate* must be *integrated*. Know well, then, that *A Course in
Miracles* is a teaching device aimed at a specific goal or conclusion.
That conclusion or goal is the re-establishment of peace. Peace begins
to be re-established in the mind when the mind is convinced that there
is a way of perceiving, a way of orienting itself to its experience,
that brings a greater reward than what has been known before.

*A Course in Miracles* was given initially to two people who had asked
from the depth of their being (although they were not aware of it at the
time) to be shown a way to perceive differently. A wise teacher first
learns the language of the student. And the two that asked the question
carried an orientation in which their primary mechanism for experience
was through the level of the mind, or the intellect. Therefore, the
teaching tool needed to be conveyed in a way that could be acceptable to
them as the student.

Secondarily, of course, as you well know, the essential message that I
sought to bring forth through that teaching device is equally applicable
to anyone who may be attracted to pursuing the study of it. And yet, the
*Course* does not seek to answer every question that a teacher of God
will, indeed, come to ask. It is designed only to re-establish the mind
at peace, and to cultivate within that mind the willingness to ask of
what I’ve called the *Comforter*, or the Holy Spirit, for guidance, rather
than remaining attached to its own devices for decision making. This
opens the way for the mind to be guided ever more deeply to what is
required to become fully re-established as the embodiment of Love.

What you have called here “breath work” is merely a next stepping stone.
Those who would hold that the *Course in Miracles* is a complete teaching
device within itself are accurate, if they understand that it was given
to those who are deeply embedded within the intellectual processes, and
that it has a specific goal that is self-contained. Those that would
assert that viewing the Course in Miracles as a complete teaching tool
in itself, if they take this to mean that there is nothing further to
explore, nothing further to deepen and become, are inaccurate. View it
then, as a *teaching device* with a *specific goal*, given in a way that is
acceptable to those who have learned to abide primarily in the level of
mind that is engaged in conceptualization.

I answer your question this way because the body, itself, is not outside
of the Mind. It arises from within the Mind. And you can, therefore,
look upon it and what arises within it, to witness the effects of the
thoughts that are actually occurring within the Mind, or have occurred
in the past, and have not been corrected or changed. Mind is far
reaching. Mind is everything, as the term is used within that teaching
device. It should always be spelled with a capital M. Mind also
encompasses feeling. Mind encompasses the body itself. For without the
Mind’s first having chosen the thought, the imagination, there could not
even be a physical realm in the first place.

When you choose, therefore, to allow yourself to breathe, recognize that
it is from the *power to decide*, that is, the *power of the Mind to choose*
that you are creating the effect of allowing the aspect of the Mind,
known as the body, to also receive illumination. To integrate *A Course
in Miracles* with what you are calling “breath work,” and what I have
addressed earlier in this hour as the way of feeling, and what, indeed,
we have called for the whole of this year *The Way of the Heart*, requires
only the continued *little willingness* to surrender any and all limited
perceptions of what Life is, and what awakening is, and what Love is,
and what healing is, so that the Holy Spirit can guide you into the
Truth of all things.

For, indeed, beloved friend, understand well that what was shared
earlier deeply pertains to you. Namely this: When, from the depth of
your being, you have fully committed to awakening from every last trace
of separation from God, when you are truly committed to not seeking for
Love, but you are willing to seek for all of the obstacles that have
been created within you that block the awareness of Love’s presence,
then, indeed, what you find yourself attracted to, what you find
yourself deciding for, in terms of the experiences that you would call
to yourself, these things are the answer to your prayer. For just as my
*Course in Miracles* came to your life, as you well know, as the result of
your own longing to deepen your relationship with God, so, too, have you
found yourself journeying to a tiny speck of dust in the middle of a
large body of water — to breathe!

It is an extension and comes from the guidance of the Comforter, the
Holy Spirit. Therefore, the integration is simple. Decide not for
yourself, but turn decisions over to the Holy Spirit. And then, take
what He has guided you toward and make it part of your life. And trust,
in faith, that all these things are not without purpose. Ask only that
every aspect, every tiny corner of your Mind become so illuminated, so
healed, that only Christ abides where even there seems to be the body.

