---
title: "WOH Lesson Six - Question Two"
contents: "woh"
---

### Way of the Heart, Lesson Six: Question Two

Can you speak about the need, or lack of need, to work
directly with the dark side, both on the physical and astral plane?

---

### Answer

**Jeshua** Yes, I can do that. [Pause]

Will you?

**Jeshua** That is another matter.

Indeed, beloved friend, first look well and understand the place within
that would draw a line and decide what is *light* and what is *dark*. For
remember that suffering comes from a split mind, a mind that sees
conflict, division, separation. If it is true that only Love heals — and
I assure you that it is — can you look upon what you have called
darkness and discover the light within it by shining light upon it? Are
there dark forces in the realm of experience, within the realm of
Creation, as you know it? Yes, but I do not mean by this that there is a
force separate from you or separate from the reach of God’s Love that
holds the power to direct, influence, or control you in any way.
Darkness ... As the journey that you’re on begins to end, you will
come to see that darkness is nothing more than a part of your own
beingness which has been neglected and not loved. For when you love what
you perceive as darkness, you reclaim it as a part of yourself. And by
loving it, you transform it. And the power you had given it by
separating it from you, returns to you where it truly abides.

Is there a difference between what could be called darkness in the realm
in which you live and move and have your being, seemingly as a body in
space and time, and that which you call the astral realms? No!
Everything exists right where you are. For you abide as fully on those
realms as you do sitting on the floor in this moment. An astral realm is
made such only because you have withdrawn your awareness of it and
sought to constrict it merely into the physical dimension. Therefore,
peering out from within a body, it looks like there is another
dimension, that you choose to call the astral realm, where things are
hidden from your view. They’re not hidden at all. They are merely
inaccessible if you use the apparatus of the physical eyes. But if you
use the eye within, nothing is hidden.

What is astral and what energies abide therein are, therefore, nothing more
than that which abides within your own consciousness, your own mind. And what
is the way of working and dealing with those dark forces? Where you are in your
third-dimensional experience as a body-mind requires only that you look
lovingly upon your brother or your sister, that you *touch* them, if you will,
with your words, with your smile, with the tips of your fingers, with the words
you speak, so that Love is extended and forgiveness given. For those many
forces and beings that seem to reside in realms unseen, called by many an
astral realm, the strategy, if you will, is perfectly identical. It is one and
the same thing, because only Love can heal.

Think well upon what is given unto you in this answer. Contemplate it
deeply. Within three weeks’ time, given the current momentum of your
mind, you will begin to have some rather interesting revelations. You
will literally feel the mind, shall we say, being rewired, shifting to a
whole new level of perception, understanding, and natural ability. For
what seems to be unseen on the astral realms ... you will then begin
to move in the direction of seeing it as clearly as you do the hand
before your face. Pleasant journeys!

