---
title: "WOH Lesson Six - Question Three"
contents: "woh"
---

### Way of the Heart, Lesson Six: Question Three

How can I tell the difference between old ego habits of
feeling and feelings which need to be felt to completion?

---

### Answer

First, beloved friend, is there a difference? Your experience is
always of and in the present. For what arises is not past, it is now. Is
it an old ego pattern? Perhaps. If there is a sense of constriction, a
sense of resistance, a sense of judgment of self or another, rest
assured, that which has arisen to temporarily dominate your attention is
an egoic pattern, since the ego is, by definition, the constriction away
from Love. And therefore, the loss of peace is its result.

Look well, then, and simply recognize,

> What is arising in this moment? Am I willing to look upon it, to feel
> it, to embrace it?

And as we would perceive and observe, you’re beginning to recognize,

> Am I willing, yet, to breathe?

For *to breathe is Life*!

*Feel*, then, what you are truly feeling. *Observe* what is truly present
within the mind. In this way, you take your hands and cup them around
whatever that is. And you’ve done that, then recognize this great Truth:

> I can choose again. And I can choose peace instead of this.

Now the “this” is not so much the picture of what you might call a
memory or a feeling or something that’s coming up. The “this” speaks to
your *judgment*, your *perception* of what is arising. *You can choose peace
instead of the perception that steals your peace.* And that is the place
of infinite and perfect power to literally transform your life!

Beloved friend, the past does not exist at any moment. If the Mind is
causing, bringing forth, a picture or a thought that seems to be
reminiscent of the past by your own decree, rest assured that it is
arising in *this present moment*, which is the only place creation and
experience occur. The past, then, can exist for you only if you
re-create it now. This re-creation does not mean that an image or a
picture can not arise in the mind, what you call memory, although, it is
a very present experience. We are speaking here of the experience you
created when that same picture appeared in your experience in a
different time frame. Your experience is never caused by what arises in
your field of awareness. Your experience — listen well — your experience
is how you have chosen to *react* in the *emotional* and *mental field*, to a
*neutral event* that has arisen. All events are *neutral*. *The reaction to
them is what generates experience.*

When nails were driven through my hands, that was an *entirely neutral
event*, although, by the way, many friends scurried about. It didn’t
*appear* to be so neutral. But it was neutral for *me*. Therefore,
understand beloved friend, that whatever events have *ever* unfolded in
the realm of your experience, *each and every one of them was perfectly
neutral, until you responded with the reaction that you were choosing in
order to create an experience in the emotional body, in order to create
a learning experience about the potentials of your own consciousness*.

Forgiveness, healing, peace, and awakening are equally *potentials* within
your own mind. Equal to and, indeed, even greater than, anything that
you have experienced heretofore. Therefore, understand, beloved friend:
Nothing has been *caused* by anything or anyone outside yourself. What
arises is always present experience. Embrace it, look upon it, claim it,
own it, feel it, breathe through it, and then recognize that you are
free to choose again.

Herein lies the straight and narrow path that leads to *Life*! And you
have a friend, currently without a body, who wants nothing more than to
witness your *true Living*. And you have countless friends, with bodies,
who share the same desire.

Be you, therefore, that which you are! And live from the power given
unto you, from the freedom in which you abide always — as the Love that
you are!

