---
title: Lesson Two
desc: Rick's Notes
---

## WOT Lesson Two 

### Quotes

There is nothing that you see that is not pervaded by the Perfect
Radiance of God's Holy Presence - nothing.

It is only because Love Is that you are.

### Five Minutes as Christ Reminder

Whenever your perceptions are less than flowing from the remembrance of
who you are, you are in unreality. When you notice this, use time wisely
and return to the practice of sitting for five minutes as Christ.

### Use Time Differently

WOT requires that we practice using time differently. Begin by
recognizing that there is nothing in the world that has the power to
separate you from your God.

WOT does not require that you change your circumstances but that you
change your attitude toward them by recognizing they are harmless (All
Events are Neutral) and that you have called all thing to yourself
(Axiom 1).

You are the one who is the source of the power which can choose how you
will see what is around you, how you will perceive it, what you will
believe most about it. You are the one with the power to penetrate the
illusory veil of the world and see the Heart, or the Truth, or the
Christ Child in everything.

<span class="aside">Aside:</span> This is the same as having dominion over all things! We decide
how we will experience all things.

### Love Has No Conditions

You don't have to wait for love to show up outside of you in order to be
loving. Love does not require any set of conditions to exist before it
does. You can test this (Exercise). When you are lonely or feeling out of sorts,
randomly call someone and tell them the truth.

> You are loved by God. You've never failed, you've never done anything
> wrong. You remain pure and innocent, even now. And I just wanted to
> give my blessings to you.

Creation is the extension of love. The extension of love **is** the
purpose of Creation.

Your treasure is your Reality as the unlimited, holy and only begotten
Child of God. You are a field of consciousness through which the Father
would extend Himself. Therefore, your greatest joy is found as you
recognize that you exist to extend your treasure.

<span class="aside">Aside:</span> He's mentioned our treasure several times in previous lessons and
here it is made most clear. Our treasure is the truth of what we are!!

God's only will is to extend that which he is, forever - unbounded,
unlimited. And God is but love.

<span class="aside">Aside:</span> The purpose of life is to extend Love.
That's it, that's all there is. There is no other purpose. And that Love
that is extended is the Love of God. And Love is that which allows all
thing, embraces all things, trusts all things and thereby transcends all
things.

### The World

The world is merely the reflection of the insane choice to deny Love and
to be devoted to fear. The world is diametrically opposed to the Truth
of the Kingdom. The world is the opposite of Reality.

WOT rests on the complete reversal of the thought system you have
learned in the world. <span class="def">And what is the world if not each moment of
relationship in which you find yourself?</span>

### Use Time Wisely

The use of time determines what you will experience in your tomorrows.
The only choice you ever have is:

> Will I assume responsibility for doing whatever I must do to eradicate
> every misperception, every obstacle to the presence of Love, every
> limited belief abut anyone or anything - especially about myself? When
> will I choose to assume responsibility for cultivating that perfect
> remembrance that I and my Father are One - that I can perceive the real
> world?

> There is nothing that you see that is not pervaded by the Perfect
> Radiance of God's Holy Presence - nothing. The stone, a leaf, a piece
> of paper blown by the wind, even the shoutings of fear and anger from
> anyone yet contains within it - if you would receive it - the Perfect
> Love of God.

### You are Wholly Dependent on God

It is only because Love Is that you are.

You are wholly dependent at all times on the pervasive Reality of Love,
which has given you existence out of its desire to extend Its treasure
&ndash; joy. This is the reality of who you are in this moment.

You are free to cultivate the ability to perceive the real world, to
see, to know, to feel, to taste, to be, to extend That which is Real.
And only Love meets that definition.

### Cultivate the Ability to Perceive the Real World

See Exercise: [What is this thing?](/t/wom/topics/wotexercise/)

Here's Jeshua's experience with this exercise.

And I discovered that what always brought joy was when I was willing to
surrender into the *awe of mystery*, to penetrate the thoughts, and
perceptions, and attitudes, and definitions that the world had taught
me. To look at a plate, and not just see a plate, but to see mystery
unfolding before me. To sit and look at a star. To sit and look at a
sacred text. To sit and look at one diseased, who sits at the side of
the road covered with dust, and *to see no difference*&mdash;to see them
pervaded by the same Mystery&mdash;the presence of my Father’s Love. I
began to sense that that Love pervaded me, that the very body-mind that
I thought had been me, Jeshua ben Joseph, was arising out of
Mystery&hellip;out of Mystery&hellip;out of Mystery&hellip;that *I did
not create myself*! And I finally came to realize that even I, Jeshua
ben Joseph, was a Mystery with which I was in relationship.

And I decided to be in relationship with my own self, what we refer to
as the body-mind, that peculiar sense of awareness in which you say, 'I
am.' I decided to be in relationship with the *totality* of my Self —
mind, spirit, soul, emotion, body--with the same sense of awe and
mystery that I felt when I looked upon the farthest of stars deep into
the night on a quiet hillside. *And that changed everything.* I gave up my
self-definitions. I did not see myself as a carpenter’s son. I did not
see myself as a Jew. I no longer saw myself as a student of the Essenes.

I came to see my Self as the mysterious extension of something beyond my
comprehension. I saw my Self as a sunbeam to the sun. I saw my Self as
the very mystery of God’s presence being unfolded in the realm of
manifestation. I saw that all that I thought, even down to the body, was
temporary; that it was an ongoing foreverness; that whatever it was that
was birthing me was *eternal*, and that if I could just *rest* in That, if I
could *abide* with That, if I could *return* to That--even prior to every
breath--that I could tap into the very Power of Creation Itself. And
get out of the way, and get out of the way, and get out of the way. And
keep diving deeper into Mystery upon Mystery upon Mystery.

<span class="aside">Aside:</span> I love his innocence and purity
expressed here. To see the Love of God in everything and to see only
that, to see no difference between the stars at night and someone
diseased and dirty sitting at the side of the road!

### Commit to God

There must come a point in the journey in which the head bows and the
thought emerges:

> I want only God, and I no longer care what it takes, what is required. I
> submit to the Mysterious Force that is Life, asking only that I be
> transformed into the perfect Field of Awareness through which that Love
> flows without obstruction.

### Fear is the Obstruction

The only obstruction is fear. Each time you set aside fear and bless the
world from the perfect holiness of your union with God you cultivate a
way of being that is not here. You are the embodiment and the expression
of Mystery. You are the very Joy of God.

By choosing to surrender defense of the perceptions you have come to
identify as *you*, by choosing to release the *grip* on the fears you
believe are justified, the judgments that you believe are true, as you
surrender your grip on the world you have made, Creation will flow
through you:

> Of myself, I do nothing. I merely witness the flow of Love through me.
> And I have used time wisely to cultivate perfect remembrance of the real
> world. Time and space do not imprison me. This body is not me. I use it
> as a tool to fashion and shape that which, in this world, can extend
> Love into any moment.


