---
title: "Lesson One"
toc:
- Question One
- Question Two
---

<p class="tr_break"> Now, we begin. </p>

And indeed, as always, greetings unto you, beloved and holy friends. As
always, we come forth to join with you in this manner, through this
voice. And yet, as always, we are not apart from where you are. And we
are not inaccessible to any of God's Children. In Truth, and for the
several thousandth time, I would say unto you that separation does not
exist in all of Creation. This can only mean that I am not apart from
where you are. And where you are has nothing at all to do with the
location of the body that you have learned to call *your own*.

In Truth, you *are* Pure Spirit. In Truth, you are as I am. In Truth, that
which you are abides throughout all dimensions of consciousness. In
Truth, that which you are has *never* tasted separation from God. There is
an aspect of you, yes indeed, that has chosen to *perceive* yourself as
identified with the physical body in this third-dimensional world of
yours called space and time. This is a part of the experience you have
created and thus called to your *Self*. But, when I speak of Self, I speak
not of the self which is the dream of the body, the self which is that
which you've identified yourself with, but rather the Self that
transcends all limitation and exists in all dimensions.

Beloved friends, by way of greeting, and by way of introduction to that
which we will be speaking unto in this, your new year, by way of
addressing what we have chosen to entitle *The Way of Transformation*,
rest with this simple Truth: At no time are you imprisoned within the
body. At no time - *at no time* - are you limited to the appearance that
you have come to believe is you - no matter how deep the pain, no matter
how certain you have been, what you call your common sense, telling you
that,

> I am here. I am this body. <br/>
> This moment is happening. This is all there is.

Regardless of all of that, the Truth is not shaken. You are not the mere
appearance of the body-mind that you have called the "self."

<!-- Track t2 -->

Now, with that simple point as a foundation, we can begin. Beloved
friends, *The Way of Transformation* rests on exactly the same thing that
all of your dreams rest upon &ndash; the *decision* concerning what *you* would be
committed to. For you cannot dream a dream, that is, you cannot create
an experience in the field of consciousness, without being one hundred
percent committed to it. It may appear that this is not the case, but I
assure you that it is.

This means that in each moment of your lived experience, what you are
aware of is wholly uncaused by *anything* outside of yourself. For
example, as we record these words, vibrated as thoughts through a
physical body that you have come to have assigned to the one that you
would call Jon Marc, as this process occurs there are a few present,
currently hearing the vibrations created as these thoughts resonate
through the mind, and then the brain, and then the vocal chords of *a*
physical body, and it creates a sound pattern that resonates with the
ears of certain other physical forms&hellip;  Rest assured that if those
beings, those *fields of consciousness* that are hearing these words, even
as they are first recorded &ndash; if *they* limit themselves to being only that
body, receiving certain frequencies of vibration touching their ears and
creating a certain neurological stimulus within the brain and
translating that vibration into certain words of your English language,
that experience is not caused by anything outside themselves.

They are equally free, in this very moment (just as you are, as you
listen to what is called the ‘re-cording' of these words), they are
infinitely free to experience this transmission of vibration in a wholly
different way, beyond what you call your English language. They are free
to perceive themselves from the realms of Pure Spirit. They are free to
see me, and those who join with me, as we transmit this frequency which
creates the vibration through the physical form &ndash; just as you are.

<!-- Track t3 -->

And therefore, by way of a simple exercise, for all of you hearing these
words, take just a moment, and within your consciousness drop this
simple pebble:

> I am not what I have perceived myself to be. I am unlimited, Pure
> Spirit, and nothing is unavailable to me.

> Therefore, in this moment, I choose to open access to other dimensions
> of experience so that I might call this moment to me in a different way.

And as the words are spoken, notice what images begin to come into your
field of awareness as you perhaps imagine yourself to be far more than
just the body, abiding in far greater dimensions than the physical
dimension. Do you see fleeting images of other beings, colors of light,
subtle feelings that perhaps you hadn't been aware of while you are
focusing on the *English translation* of the vibrations? What do you
notice drifting through the field of your awareness? Pay attention to
it, for you cannot imagine what you have not or are not experiencing.

You are the *field of consciousness* having that experience *now*. You
create the capacity. You decide what will enter into the field of your
awareness and how you will experience it. Beloved friends, learn to look
beneath the scenes. Learn to feel beyond the body. Learn to allow
yourself awareness of what steals across the metaphorical *corner of your
eye*, that is, the *outer edges* of your field of awareness.

Come to realize that the experience you are most familiar with,
that is, the one of being a body-mind, who listens to vibrations of
sound, translates them into English and therefore perceives that you are
having *a conversation* with *one* being who happens to be another body in
space, sitting ten feet from you, or whose words are recorded upon a
tape. Recognize that around the edges of that there is something far
more vast, something which can be cultivated, that allows you to be
aware at much more refined levels.

Eventually you will come to be able to perceive these dimensions of
energy with your eyes open, as you look upon another body-mind who is
currently having the experience of vibrating thoughts through it
directed toward you &ndash; you call it a conversation. And you will see that
other being, not as a body, but as a field of light. You'll see colors.
You'll feel vibrations. And those colors and those vibrations will tell
you much more than the words could ever say to you. The result, of
course, is that you won't be fooled by words nearly as often as you have
been in the past.

Practice this little exercise as often as you choose, in any and all
circumstances. It is not difficult. You simply use the field of your
consciousness to *decide* to be *aware* of what's around the edges of the
third-dimensional experience you are having. For instance, when you pull
in your automobile up to what you call the red light, as you sit next to
another automobile with a driver, and you look over through the physical
eyes &ndash; if you limit yourself you will see an automobile with another
body sitting behind a wheel, similar to what your body is doing (or what
you call your body).

What if you allowed yourself to play, by looking at that being and
saying within the mind,

> This is but one small expression of that being. I wonder what's
> occurring around the edges?

You might surprise yourself when suddenly a thought comes into your
consciousness. That thought, you *know*, is not quite yours. It could be
the thought of the person in the car saying,

> My God, I should have, why didn't I, iron my husband's shirt this
> morning? Oh, he's going to be so angry!

How many times have thoughts like that entered your mind and you've
dismissed them as imagination?

<!-- Track t4 -->

What we're suggesting here, is that you use the most ordinary moments of
your day to become aware of your own being, your own naturally expanded,
unlimited Self. There is nothing hidden at any time, and in any moment
you have full access to the totality of another soul. Does that sound
like an invasion of privacy? Beloved friends, there is no such thing.
Privacy is important only for those who believe they are cut off, and
separate, and perhaps have something to hide. In reality, *nothing* is
hidden. And as you come to trust that the deep nature of your own being
is perfect wisdom, perfect compassion, and perfect Love — you will begin
to release the fear that you have built up around the *extraordinary*
skills that you already possess.

You will discover that you can trust your unlimited Spirit. And as you
sit in your car, looking at the one behind the wheel of the automobile
next to you, and you allow yourself to relax and notice what's around
the edges, as it touches your consciousness, you will realize that this
means that minds are not separate, one from another. And if their mind
is touching yours, yours is touching theirs, and you are free to send
them Love. You are free to notice what you pick up from another and,
without opening the physical mouth, you can send the answer of wisdom
that they are seeking.

Imagine being able to go to your grocery store and push your little
metal cart down the aisles so that you can fill it with the boxes of
what appears to be fresh food, and notice the thought waves of those
around you — beginning to pick up what's going on in their drama, their
story, their life — and actually be able to (what your word would be)
telepathically communicate to them the answers to their dilemmas. Would
that not feel like a greater degree of freedom than what you are
accustomed to?

You see, *The Way of Transformation* absolutely requires that you be
*committed* to living differently. For is not transformation a change from
the status quo? How can you experience transformation if you do not use
time to *think* and *be* differently? Crying out to me will not do it.
Reading a thousand holy books will not do it. One thing, and one thing
only, will bring you into the transformation that you have sought — the
*willingness* to abide where you are, *differently*.

Begin again with the simple exercise of reminding yourself that, in
Truth, you are unlimited Spirit, abiding in all dimensions and all
extraordinary abilities are already inherent in your consciousness
&ndash; for if they were not, it would mean that God creates with
inequality.

> Well, you are born with that gift, but I don't have it.

No. God creates His beloved Son and the Sonship is made up of equals in
Spirit. The only difference, in the field of time, is that it appears
that some have accessed and cultivated their inherent abilities more so
than have others.

You would then use this to perceive another as more *special* than you as
a way of proving to yourself your lack of worth, your smallness, your
weakness. Perhaps someday, if only you lived the next hundred lifetimes
being a "good" person, then maybe these abilities will begin to
spontaneously show up in you. But there are no accidents, and nothing
you see being made manifest in the life of *anyone* has occurred by
accident. Everything you see is *deliberate* &ndash; everything.

Therefore, if you would look upon my beloved brother, or the body that
you have assigned to him, and say,

> Oh, my goodness, he can talk with Jeshua, but I could never do that.

Stop lying to yourself! Rather, come to see that if this ability is
being made manifest in your field of awareness, it is because *you* have
called it to *yourself* as a reminder of what is already inherent within
*you*.

If another lays the hand of the body on the forehead of one who is sick,
and the one who is sick arises and the disease is no longer present,
remember that you have called that experience, through that beloved
brother or sister, into the field of your consciousness to remind *you* of
the Truth of your beingness. And if you feel attracted to being a
healer, then drop everything else you are committed to and begin
healing.

<!-- Track t5 -->

As we enter into this year of transformation, you will discover that we
begin to speak more directly to you, in the sense of — what you call
this — the "not beating about of the bush." Not placating your
resistance, your fears, not stroking you for the dramas you have created
that have *seemed* to separate you from the Truth of your divine nature.
For as we move into *The Way of Transformation*, the call is being sent
from us to you — to arise and assume complete responsibility for all
that you see, all that you think, and all that you choose. And rest
assured, if you hear this call it is because a deeper part of you has
called it to you as a way by which you remember that these things are
already contained within you.

*The Way of Transformation* is the way of assuming responsibility for
time, for each and every moment of it. For time is not a prison for you.
It is that which flows out of your very consciousness, and there is
never a place or a time — *never* a place or a time — which is more
conducive to *The Way of Transformation* than the place in which you are
and the time that is now. There is no one without *privilege*. There is no
one by their station in life, as the world would see it, who is limited
from watering and cultivating and bringing forth the fruit that rests
within their unlimited consciousness. There is no one who is a victim of
the world they see. For the world they see truly occurs nowhere save
within the field of their awareness, which we call consciousness or
mind. The buildings, the automobiles you drive, the dollars in the bank
— none of that is real. These are merely symbols of the quality of
experience you have chosen to call to yourself, as a temporary learning
experience.

Beloved friends, use time well. Ask yourself,

> Am I fully committed to transforming my awareness from one who has been
> sleeping, and perceiving myself as limited to the space and time
> dimension, or am I committed to truly hearing my brother's call to take
> up my cross and follow him?

That is, the cross of crucifixion, the heavy wooden cross that you've
been carrying around that says,

> Well, I'm really struggling and trying to get to Christed Consciousness,
> but ... Oh, if, if I just, maybe if I got rid of my husband, that
> would do it. Or perhaps if I moved to another location, that would do
> it. Maybe there is a spiritual technique out there that I haven't found
> yet in the smorgasbord available. Once I find it and start practicing
> it, then I can get on with it.

You are *in* the holiest of temples: your Self. You *abide* in the perfect
moment for your transformation. Nothing limits you at all, or at any
time. The power of the freedom of choice is the essence of Christ. And
the very, very, very power that you have been using to try to convince
yourself of your limitations is exactly the same power that I used to
overcome death. There is no difference, except a wink of an eye, an
intention, a commitment, a recognition — that is all. In reality,
nothing is impossible to you and nothing unavailable to you.

<!-- Track t6 -->

So, what occurs, what occurs in the consciousness that seems to create
the blockage, the obstacle to Love's presence? As you create a temporary
perceived limitation as a way to call to you a certain quality of
experience, there is a tendency to fall into the trap of identifying
yourself with the constraints that you have set up, from your unlimited
freedom, in order to have a temporary learning experience. When in your
consciousness you come to be identified with the boundaries or the
constraints — the lines upon the canvas that *you* have freely chosen to
draw — you create an imprisonment. That imprisonment is actually a
complete illusion, and in *reality* your unlimited Self goes on
experiencing anything it wants, throughout all dimensions of Creation.

Your *belief* that you are defined by the lines you have drawn in the
field of consciousness, the pebbles you have dropped, the ripples you
have created — your belief that that is only you creates a constriction,
and a density, and a conflict that is occurring nowhere in your being
except in that part of you that has extended itself like a sunbeam from
the sun into what you call your space-time dimension.

Now, think about this. If you feel constrained in this dimension, it
does not mean that *you* are constrained. It simply means that one tiny
ray of your Light is temporarily having a certain kind of experience.
And if you trace that ray of Light back to its source, you find
something brighter than ten thousand of your suns, something far more
vast than the sun that lights your physical universe, something so vast
that out of it has come forth a multitude of universes! That Light of
your soul, Pure Spirit, remains undefiled and unlimited. That *tiny ray*
can become aware of the whole, and that is the process of awakening. It
doesn't really change anything at all, since you begin to become
identified, not with the tiny little ray that's having a temporary
experience, but that field out of which the very power to experience the
space-time dimension is coming forth.

Imagine shifting your identity so that you are the ocean from which a
multitude of waves are coming forth, and continually coming forth, each
one slightly different, each one a little larger or smaller, a little
faster, each one with a little more foam on it than the other — the very
temporary, dancing waves being emitted from a field or an ocean of
waters that knows neither beginning nor end and whose far shores can not
be discovered. *That* is your Self, not the tiny wave that has a name and
a history of being born at a certain time and living in a certain house
or a city. It is certainly never what you call yourself as a banker, or
a teacher, or a channel, or a mother, or a father. None of these things
is what you are.

<!-- Track t7 -->

*The Way of Transformation* is much simpler than you think. But again, it
rests on *your* decision to use time to be *wholly committed* to awakening
from the narrow constraints you have placed upon your vast field of
consciousness for no other reason than that it might be rather
entertaining to allow this tiny little ray to continue in space and time
for a while, while being aware of the totality of your Self and actually
operating from that totality.

Can you imagine living like that? Can you imagine your body-mind driving
its little automobile down the road, but every time you pull up to your
red light and you notice someone next to you, you don't perceive ---
you will still see the automobile, you'll still see the body, but what
you're feeling, what you are knowing, what you are seeing is that that
is an *infinite field of consciousness*, just like you are, and that their
mind field touches yours throughout all dimensions and that you are
Christ, that you can transmit wisdom and Love to them.

You can learn to direct energies. You might see it as a certain color.
You can touch their field, their auric field. You can send healing to
the organs of the body that you can see are perhaps a little out of
whack. *You* can be the embodiment in space and time of that Self that is
so vast, so grand, so filled with extraordinary power, that all you can
do is smile — perhaps unseen and unrecognized by those who, themselves,
have become unwittingly identified with a little, tiny drop of foam
which is part of the wave, which is part of the ocean of their Self.

But what they choose does not influence your choice. Listen very
carefully again: What another chooses does not influence your choice at
all, even when it seems like it. It isn't even accurate to say,

> Oh well, I fell under the influence of so-and-so and so-and-so; I went a
> little unconscious, that's why it happened. I gave up myself.

No. No. No! In every moment of your experience, what you experience is
coming from *within* you. It is not placed in you from a source outside of
yourself. And in every moment, you remain free to observe and to notice
whether you are having a good time being where you are — that is, being
in your perception of life, and recognizing you have the power to think
differently.

> Oh, that's right, I'm not in a traffic jam. There is no such thing as a
> traffic jam. Everything is perfect. There is just a giant weaving
> together of experiences of infinite souls. So while I sit here in this
> little car with this funny little body, I'm going to be Christ. And I'm
> going to tap in to what's going on around the edges of my awareness. And
> I'll feel the thoughts of anyone I choose to direct attention to. And
> from the depth of my being, I will direct Love to them. I can choose to
> be the Truth of who I am. The red light, the automobiles, all jangled
> together — these things do not create my experience. My experience is
> flowing from within. It is being extended outward.

Listen carefully. No one has the power to create your experience. No one
has the power to limit your experience. And nowhere in the Laws of God
has it ever been written that you must conform your experience to the
choices of another. You remain free, to freely choose to be the
embodiment of Christ. You are the one who can bless Creation. And it
begins when you are willing to assume responsibility for what you want
to use time for.

In Truth, you're doing it anyway. You are always using time for exactly
what *you* are choosing. You're not surviving. You're not trying to get
things done that the world is requiring. Never is anything occurring
except that you are having awareness of the effects of how you are
choosing to use consciousness, and that's all.

Here is where *The Way of Transformation* begins. Ultimately, it is also
where it ends. But the difference will be that you will no longer even
want to choose anything that speaks of limitation. Even though the
body-mind, that you once identified as yourself, still seems to be
moving about in space and time, you won't even look at that body-mind
and say ‘mine. ' You will simply say,

> The body-mind — a temporary communication device brought forth from the
> ocean of my unlimited Self as I have done a multitude of times in a
> multitude of universes — what's the big deal?

Your consciousness will literally *shift*. It will take a new perspective.
And you will know that you are Pure Spirit, that you do not abide in
time at all, that you can simply delight in utilizing the body-mind as a
communication device.

When you get on your airplane and you travel to some distant shore to a
place that you are enjoying being in, you are still using the body-mind
as a communication device between you and the Earth, between you and
other creations that have come forth from other minds, whether it be a
beautiful building or a beautiful painting. All that you are ever
experiencing is something that you have drawn to yourself through the
medium of the body — an experience, and that is all. You are the
unlimited one who's in the driver's seat.

<!-- Track t8 -->

The second stage, closely related to the first that we described to you
earlier in *The Way of Transformation*, requires that you begin to bring
awareness to the little squiggly lines that you have drawn on the white
and unlimited and perfectly unblemished canvas of consciousness. Some
would call this — your psychologists would call these personalities or
masks. Come to be aware of the *little selves* you have created. Begin to
ask yourself,

What am I defending? What am I continuing on a daily basis that no
longer fulfills me? After all, I've been there. I have done that. How
might I look upon these little selves, these little drops of foam on
this temporary wave I've brought forth? How might I use them
differently? I wonder if I could create a brand new one?

Why is this important? It is because the squiggles you have drawn —
perhaps you would say to yourself,

> Well, I am Mary Jane. I am a vice president at a bank. I was born in
> such and such a city. My parents are so-and-so and so-and-so, and I'd
> really be different except my sister used to beat me when I was young.

— the second you define yourself, you constrain yourself within the
parameters that you have chosen to value. And you, [snaps fingers] that
quickly, create exactly the experience of the vibrations that are the
effect of the squiggles. Think of those squiggles, the parameters of a
little self, as the effect of certain pebbles that have been dropped
into the pond of your consciousness. Once you draw the lines, certain
effects flow from it.

What if you were to decide to create a self that sees itself as
perfectly unlimited? And instead of saying,

> Well, I have to go see my sister. I know she used to beat me, but that's
> the way it is. It's just who I am,

you simply sat back and said,

> You know, I'm a perfectly unlimited being, and I think I'll create a
> self who is an expression of the unlimited Love of Christ. And I'm going
> to go see this human being (you might use their name but not to call
> them your sister) — I'm going to go see this being and I'm going to
> utilize time for beaming as much Love to them as I can, for no other
> reason than it will feel rather grand to do so. I am the embodiment of
> Christ, and this one may not know it, but that doesn't matter. I can
> enjoy it anyway.

Do you see how that could begin to move you beyond an identification of
a certain definition of yourself that has actually locked you in to a
narrow parameter, or set of parameters, which can only have certain
kinds of effects? What if you were to sit down with those you call your
parents and deliberately chose to look at them as beings that *you* had
called to your field of awareness, that they are infinite and free
beings in perfect equality with you? And they simply chose to receive
your cosmic telegram and took on a certain role in space and time to
help you play out what *you* wanted to learn. Would that begin to shift
your identification with them as merely parents? For if you look upon
them and say,

> Those are my parents,

you have defined yourself as only their child. Do you begin to see the
significance?

> 'Tis very, very important to bring awareness to the definitions you have
> given yourself, and keep insisting upon, each and every day. That is
> like dropping the same pebble into the same stream, creating the same
> effects — and nothing is transformed.

It also brings up some fear.

> What would happen if I let go of the definitions that I'm familiar with?

And here's the answer: Nothing will happen, because in reality those
definitions have never truly limited your unlimited Self from going on
creating and experiencing, throughout all dimensions. The only change
that could be said to occur, is that that little tiny ray of your
beingness that is currently dancing through the experience of being a
mind-body in space and time, will begin to throw open the doors and
actually access Cosmic Awareness.

<!-- Track t9 -->

If you want the experience of walking on this planet as an enlightened
master, first come to understand the foundation upon which The Way of
Transformation is based. Secondly, bring awareness to the definitions of
your self that have become unconscious for you. And then *deliberately
redefine* your self as you enter into the field of your experiences. Does
that make sense for you?

And here is the nub: No one can make the decision for you.

I have never enlightened anyone. I have never even so much as lifted
them an inch. I have merely chosen to demonstrate unlimitedness for
myself, and part of that experience was taking on the crucifixion, just
so that I could learn how to overcome death. That was *my* choice, *my*
pathway, *my* calling forth of experience. I can tell you that it's much
more grand to be in the body while being completely aware of your Cosmic
Self. And in the same moment, I must say to you, it's perfectly okay for
you to perceive yourself as a limited ray of consciousness. Yes, there
are certain results that follow. But still, you are completely free to
continue in that field of experience for as long as you wish.

Imagine one who goes to swim in the waters of what you call a pool, and
there are certain parameters — each end may be forty of your feet in
length and the sides might be two hundred feet in length; it doesn't
matter. There is still a certain volume of water, and that is the field
in which you swim. That field of water is like the field of your
consciousness. It is shaped by the boundaries that *you* choose to draw.
The very same being could say,

> I am much too grand to swim in a pool. I believe I'll put the little
> body on an airplane and fly to the grand ocean — there to swim in the
> midst, unbounded by a box.

The experience of that swimming is much different.

Your consciousness is exactly like that. And all that you experience,
from the moment you awaken in the morning until the moment you awaken in
the morning again (because there is no downtime) — everything you see,
everything you experience, is the *direct result* of where and how you
have drawn the lines on the blank canvas of consciousness. And you are
free at any time to erase them and draw differently.

Never say, then, that you have discovered something. Rather, learn to
say,

> I am experiencing the effects of certain lines I have drawn in the
> infinite field of my beingness. And you know something? They are
> perfectly okay.

That is, taking a walk in the rain — learn to enjoy it, from the place
of unlimitedness within you, as a Christ would walk upon this Earth and
say,

> I choose to feel the rain upon the skin of this body. I feel the shiver
> of the flesh against the cold. What a delight it is! I am unlimited,
> forever! And this moment does not define me. It does not imprison me. I
> am free! I am free!
> 
> Tomorrow, I might move to some warmer climate where the sun shines and
> there are no clouds of rain. And if so, I will enjoy the rays of the
> sunlight upon my skin and the sweat upon the brow. And I will notice
> what it feels like as it trickles across the skin — not my skin, but the
> skin.
> 
> And when I meet a friend, I will remind myself that our fields of mind
> are meeting in many dimensions. What will I choose to bring to that
> moment? Will I see myself as limited to the boundaries of the skin of
> the body? Will I only tell them of all my laments? "My car had a flat
> tire, and then my mommy called and she's unhappy because I forgot her
> birthday, and oh, my goodness, I don't know how I'm going to get
> through." Or, am I going to meet them as the unlimited Cosmic Being that
> I am?
> 
> Will I create the space in which I get to enjoy beaming Love to them? Will
> I enjoy seeing what's occurring just around the edges of the third-dimensional
> experience that, of course, does go on? "Hello Fred, nice to
> see you." But around the corners, "Oh, Fred, you had an argument with
> your wife. Let me talk to you about that," without ever opening the
> physical mouth. "Here's some Love for you. You know the wisdom. You know
> the answer." Hmm ... Oh, a little cancer beginning to form in the
> colon. I think I'll send light to it. "Yes, yes, so how's the wife, how
> are the children? Oh, very good." Light beaming into the cancer, light
> beaming into the cancer.

Which experience do you prefer: the contracted awareness within two
small squiggles on an infinite canvas of Radiant Light, or the Radiant
Light Itself, operating *through* very temporary and freely chosen
‘squiggles' called the body-mind?

<!-- Track t10 -->

*The Way of Transformation* begins with you deciding what you are most
committed to. It requires bringing awareness to every set of definitions
you have adopted about the self and placed as an overlay upon it. It
culminates in the *transparency* of the body-mind self, the little ray of
light that you think you are, so that even while that continues for a
little while, it is permeated by an awareness of your Cosmic Being. And
that becomes your identity.

And you are Christ, playing in the world — unlimited, unfettered,
unvictimized by anything. And what arises, arises, and what passes away,
passes away. And arising and passing away are exactly the same to you.
Love comes; it is received. Love *seems* to be taken; so what? You bless
the being that withdraws awareness from you and you simply open to
whoever comes into your consciousness. For you decide how you will be in
relationship with each moment. And you never discover something *out
there* that's *right*. You simply create the structure of your experience.

Whenever another says to you,

> Well, I like to eat meat. I love it raw and bloody upon my plate,

and you've been eating nothing but fruits and vegetables, there is no
reason to say anything at all. Just smile, decide that you can beam them
Love — not because they're doing something wrong and if you love them
they might change — but because their decision doesn't mean anything. It
is just a description of how they are structuring their experience. If
you identify with yourself as a ‘pure vegetarian,' you will not be able
to prevent yourself from judging your brother or sister. And where
judgment abides, you have created separation, and for a moment you lose
the presence of Love.

Can you become selfish enough to learn to truly recognize that you are
not influenced by anyone else's choices, and their choices do not say
anything about your own? You are free to embrace your experience as
being wholly Self-created out of perfect innocence, perfect playfulness,
the free use of time to generate experience. Hmm.

<!-- Track t11 -->

Much has been given to you already in this time, what you call this
recording. We would highly suggest for those *committed* to
transformation, that they go back and be very clear about what is being
shared. Begin this year to create your own personal transformation
journal. Let it be used for no other purpose.

Take the journal and find a picture that represents for you the highest,
the deepest, the most passionate, the most beautiful expression of *Love*
that you can imagine. Don't compare it to anybody else's. Just put it on
the front of the journal. Buy a pen that will be used for no other
reason than this. Find a place to place this journal so that nothing
else occupies that space, whether it be on your altar, in a drawer by
your bed. Find a place, deliberately, out of the field of your
Christedness, and say,

> Ah, this is the place.

Then, each time you receive one of these tapes, go through it carefully
and write down the key points that are being shared. And decide what
they will mean for you. And decide what steps you will take to
incorporate them into your lived, daily experience — even if that means
that they are not going to be incorporated at all. Take one hundred
percent responsibility for the decision and write down in your journal,

> I don't think I'm going to do that. I own it; I decide freely. That's
> the way it is.

As you do this, by the time the year ends, you will be surprised at what
you have written in your journal. As you go through it month by month,
also keep track of some of the things that you experience as you play
with the practices that we give you. How are things changing? What
experiences are you beginning to have as you explore the space just
beyond the corners of your normal awareness? When you do the exercise we
suggested when we began, what images came, what thoughts did you notice,
what colors did you see? Write them down, jot them down. Have fun with
it.

For indeed, in each month we will be giving you very specific, though
what may seem as very simple exercises. But they are designed to give
you access to what is already occurring at all times, in a way that can
foster and deepen your *deliberate awareness* of what is occurring all the
time: your cosmic and unlimited Self.

<!-- Track t12 -->

The only transformation you can experience in space and time is the
reaching down from the depth of the ocean into one tiny, temporary wave
and re-adjusting the little foam drops on the tip of the wave you call
the body-mind of the self, so that it begins to be a transparent conduit
for an awareness of the ocean itself. That's the game of awakening. It
is actually the most delightful use of time you will ever find.

And as you choose to do that, trust me, it will carry you beyond this
world — not from denial, but simply because you've outgrown it. And
there are dimensions of experience awaiting you that are so much more
grand than the dimension of the body-mind. But the way that you get to
them is by bringing *full awareness* to what you are choosing to
experience in each and every moment. Soap on the skin in the morning
shower — wow, how amazing! Raindrop upon the cheek. Shiver against the
cold. The sound of a cat meowing. The thoughts of a dog across the
street. These things you call to yourself in this dimension.

Don't you want to taste it all? Don't you want to wrap yourself around
it all? Don't you want to remember that magic is around you? And that
out of magic, the moment you are experiencing is being created from
within your Holy Self. It's never been, and it will never be again —
Mystery of all mysteries, Dance of Creation, Reality of Love! There is
no higher state in the mind-body than to live as one who's been *blown
away* and lives in that state perpetually. Then you are free and the
world has no hold upon you.

So, here we will come to the end of this hour's message. ‘Tis a
beginning for anyone who chooses to wrap their unlimited hands around
it. But alas, we cannot shape the use of it for you. And if you don't
like where you are, look no further than yourself.

We await you. We will reach out for you, in a million different ways,
across space and time into the space between your thoughts — not just
through the mechanism of this tape, but every time there is a little
space open in your consciousness. Indeed, we will come and whisper,

> Beloved friend, come and play at a vaster level. It is all within you.
> Come and play. Come and play with God's Children!

You are free. In this moment, you are as free as you will ever be, right
now.

How, then, will you use time?

What will you construct out of your infinite field of awareness? What
world will you look upon? What thoughts will you think? What feelings
will you evoke within the cells? Where will you direct the body to be
plopped down on a daily basis? How will you observe, or how will you
enter into, relationship with each moment — whether touching a dial, or
touching a body? It really makes no difference. What will you bring to
that experience? Is it Christ touching the shoulder of another, or is it
just some limited, needy self?

Who will you say that you are to this world? For what you decree *is*,
[snaps fingers] instantly. There's no way out of this responsibility.
Stop fighting it and birth Christ where once you thought something less
than that has dwelt.

Beloved friends, peace be unto you always, and always I am with you. And
I come to you not alone, but with many who have delighted in creating a
resonance with me, and I with them, for no other reason than that power
expands *exponentially* when minds join in Love from a foundation of
wholeness and not neediness. I do not need the one that you call my
Mother; she does not need me. But, oh, how we delight in creating
*together* that which extends the holy, the good, and the beautiful —
without end! Will you come and play with us?

Peace, then, be unto you always. And, as always,

Amen.

---

## Question One

[*Question One*](/t/wom/wot/l01/q1/): Who are the other masters
occasionally mentioned?
{: .omit}

---

## Question Two

[*Question Two*](/t/wom/wot//l01/q2/): What is the difference between
judging and discerning?  And what guidelines can we observe to better
practice discernment?
{: .omit}

