---
title: "Lesson Five"
---

Now, we begin.

And again, greetings unto you, beloved and holy friends. We come forth
in this hour to continue our discussion of *The Way of Transformation*. We
come forth in this hour to yet again remind you that all that you think,
all that you see, and all that you do is not the result of that which
comes to you, but rather, that which comes *from* you. For always and
forever, the world you perceive is uncaused, save by yourself. This is
why it is always true that freedom *is* closer to you than your own
breath. That freedom *is* the reality of your being. That freedom *is* that
which is realized without effort. Freedom is realized when you decide to
accept the Truth that is true always:

> I and my Father are One.
>
> I Am That Which I Am.

You are Consciousness. You are Awareness. You are that which witnesses,
that which experiences, that which pays homage to the one thing that God
has created: *Christ*. Christ, then, means 'the anointed.' You have been
anointed since before the beginning of all worlds with that which the
Father Is: Awareness, Pure Intelligence. You have been anointed with the
ability to choose what you would wish to perceive. And thereby imbued
with the power to create, you abide--freely--in each moment.

This freedom is completely unobstructed and unchangeable, forever. It is
in your freedom that you think what you think, you see what you see, you
feel what you feel--even in your third-dimensional reality. At any
moment, you are perfectly free to see the radiant beauty of the real
world pervading all things, even your own consciousness, just as you are
also free to see fear.

<!-- Track t2 -->

In our last hour together we began to explore, by way of analogy, that
which has transpired that brought you into the experience of being a
spark of the Divine, an aspect of the totality that brought you to the
place of the soul. And the soul then condenses, falls if you will, into
what you have called your physical world. And there you find yourself,
right here and right now, surely the product of the world around you,
surely the product of your parents, surely the product of forces beyond
your control. And yet, the whole while, you have remained exactly as you
are--the witness, pure consciousness, the Self, the seer, as some have
called it.

Beloved friends, from the moment...now we are going to speak in this
hour specifically about *this one life* that you're living now. Beloved
friends, in the moment prior to your incarnation, you were in existence,
abiding with perfectly clear awareness within a state or quality or
dimension of consciousness. Now, it is true that even that was the
result of choices made in the past. But again, we wish to speak in this
hour of this one incarnation. Now, imagine then, if you will ...
perhaps you might wish to pause the tape, allow the body to relax. Let
go of any gripping in the mind. Let the things that need perhaps to be
done to, shall we say, sit on the shelf for awhile, and then continue.

<!-- Track t3 -->

Beloved friend, imagine, if you will, abiding without a physical body
and yet having awareness. This should not be difficult, since you do it
each night while you sleep. You do it when you 'daydream.' It occurs
occasionally while making love, while watching your television. In fact,
each and every one of you experiences that quality of awareness several
times during each and every day, when you 'forget yourself'--that is,
you forget your *embodied existence*. The difference being that in your
world, you 'come back to your senses'--that is, you come back to
embodied existence.

Imagine, though, a state in which there simply is no physical form, and
you are abiding as Consciousness, Itself. Oh yes, you have awareness. Oh
yes, you have form, but that form of energy has not condensed into the
third dimension. You have friends. That is, you have other
consciousnesses with which you are in perfect communication. For the
vast majority of you, in fact we would say here in this hour, all of you
that are listening to this tape as it is first given out, all of you are
sufficiently evolved to have come into this life of yours, now, from a
state of consciousness that is quite peaceful, quite joyous.
Communication with those which we would call as '*friends*' is unbroken.
It is consistent; it is respectful; it is loving; it is free.

As you relax and listen to this simple description, what color, or
colors, begin to come to mind? Notice them, pay attention to them. What
images seem to fleetingly flow through the mind? Notice them. Pay a
moment's attention to them. For remember an ancient truth we once gave
you: You cannot imagine that which you have not experienced, for
imagination is the picturing in the conscious mind. That picturing must
come forth from something. Mind, as you know it, can only picture what
is or has been. It can then, of course, find ways, at times, to bring it
back in to the third-dimensional experience, but that does not mean that
it is new.

As you were abiding in that state, you were in relationship. Most of you
were multidimensionally aware, that is, while you had a predominant
color or level of energy, you were aware that you were surrounded at all
times by other dimensions. Many of you communicated multidimensionally,
both with that which would be called of a higher frequency as well as
with that which would be called of a lower frequency. Many of you
communicated with beings who were incarnated within the third-dimensional realm.

<!-- Track t4 -->

Now, there was a moment, for each and every one of you, when the
decision was made within *your* consciousness, within *your* mind, that
conditions were appropriate for you to again incarnate. There are many,
many factors that attract the soul to yet again condense into physical
form, but the chief among these is the perception and thought that there
is yet something left undone, there is yet some lesson that cannot be
realized save within the physical domain, that there is indeed a purpose
that you, as a soul, would yet wish to fulfill.

It is very true that some of you have incarnated because you felt
compassion. That is, you looked upon the third-dimensional realm and saw
it suffering and *yearned* to bring Light to this dimension, in which you
now find yourself. And yet even *this* stems forth from the reason, or the
perception, that *you* must *do something* to *correct* what is occurring.
That is a perception that many of you are aware still runs you. As you
look out upon the world, as you look out upon your brothers and sisters,
there is this *compulsion*, this need to get involved, to *fix*. There is a
belief in many of you that if you take no action, that somehow *you* are
belittled, that your sense of identity, your sense of being, is caught
up with looking out upon the world, judging what is right and wrong,
holding opinions about what *ought* to be done, and then often trying to
persuade others to do it your way.

So, there you are. You are Spirit, and yet you are soul. You are having
a relational experience and you are perfectly aware. Time does not quite
exist where you are, for time is a unique and peculiar experience that
is very much linked to matter or to the body. You abide in a timeless
state. As you look upon the conditions, you are also aware of your
connection with souls that you've known before, that are currently
incarnated upon the physical plane. You are aware of, you can sense, the
quality of a resonance of their consciousness with yours, that is, with
the lessons you are longing to learn. A decision is made in the mind,
*not forced upon you, whatsoever*. In fact, we would share with you that
the decision to incarnate need not have *ever* been made. That is, you are
not compelled by some force outside of yourself to come into this
dimension. Does that mean that you made a mistake? Not at all. There can
be no mistakes in all of Creation.

<!-- Track t5 -->

As you begin to *descend*, which means to bring your attention to slow its
vibration of consciousness down, as you begin to *incarnate*, you did not so
much *go* anywhere as merely--shall we say--turn your thermostat down, so
that the quality of your consciousness, your essence, your soul, began to
vibrate at a frequency that resonated with the third-dimensional plane. Your
attention, your focus, your desire, began more and more to be focused on one
unique, particular set of circumstances. These circumstances are the *web of
relationship* created by the parents, created by the cultural milieu in which
they live, the quality of consciousness--that field of energy, if you will,
like a spinning vortex, itself a spinning vortex within a larger spinning
vortex called the world, itself. And from your place of perception, the world
is not solid at all. It's just another dimension of vibration, and that is all,
with its own peculiar parameters.

And so you as soul, you as individuated consciousness, began to descend
into incarnation. This cannot occur before the moment of conception in
your mother's womb. Usually it is at that point of conception when you,
as a soul, become involved in the very act by which conception occurs.
And a new form of life begins to develop within the womb. In that
moment, there is a flash, what you might call a quantum leap, and your
attention becomes almost entirely fixated on, identified with, the
particular quality of energy that is that new birthing of a physical
form. You've 'come into body,' as they say it. Coming into body simply
means that you've fixated your attention away from all other dimensions
and have 'taken on,' if you will, the unique and particular and,
sometimes, very peculiar parameters involved in that physical form. And
what is that physical form made of? Inert matter?--hardly. It is,
itself, a web of relationships created by the particular vibrational
patterns of the mother and the father.

Therefore, as you come into this world, the very first relationships
that you have are with the mother and father, and you know and feel them
intimately. For you are now identified with a growing physical form that
is, itself, growing *out of*--like a wave coming out of a particular
ocean--it is growing out of the matrix of energies that make up the
mother and the father.

Here is also where your 'struggle' begins, your struggle to create
yourself in the world. Your struggle begins to find yourself. For the
majority of you, this process whereby attention is shifted from a
different state of consciousness into the physical dimension...for
the majority of you, this flash, this quantum leap, this shifting of
attention, was so dramatic and required such a *shock* that you began to
forget your connection to Spirit, your realization that you are soul,
Pure Consciousness. You began to lose awareness of your freedom. You
could call it *becoming unconscious*, or *falling asleep*.

<!-- Track t6 -->

Now, the very first universe that you experience within the physical
dimension is the experience, or the universe, of the womb. Here, you are
in *constant, constant* communication with all that is passing through the
energy field of the mother. This doesn't mean just the potpie she had
for dinner, or the cup of coffee she had in the morning which made your
heart race (hmm?). It is also the quality of air that she breathes. But
more important than these, the quality of *emotional energy* that makes up
the particular matrix she is experiencing in her own universe. For these
things immediately affect the hormonal balances, the flow of chemicals
through the physiological system and, at this point, you are very much
part of that physiological system. Therefore, you take on, you begin to
*feel* and *experience* the psychic field of the mother. You are also aware
of the psychic field of the father and of any other immediate family
members. You are also aware of the energies, any particular dominant
energies that are going on within the social structure. Remember we
talked before about *webs of relationship*. You are a field of energy
within a field of energy within a field of energy within a field of
energy, even in your third-dimensional realm.

Many have used the word *imprint* to describe this initial state in which
you become identified with the physiological form emerging out of the
field of energy that is the particular matrix of the mixture of energies
of the mother and father. This is where you start. And again, you have
done so in order to bring forth what you would call certain lessons. You
have done this because of certain patterns held within the consciousness
before you turned your attention to this dimension. And again, for the
vast majority of you, in fact all of you listening to this tape, that
descension, that quantum leap from the realm of Pure Spirit from a
different vibrational state, into the vibrational state of the third
dimension, was a *shock*--so much so that your awareness *forgot yourself*
as Pure Spirit.

Now, if the shock at conception isn't sufficient, it could happen any
time during the womb. If there is any kind of trauma for the mother, if
there is a physiological imbalance, if it is difficult for the breathing
experience, if there is any problem with the flow of nutrients to the
body, if the mother is under even occasional acute emotional stress,
then you will make an attempt to pull back away from the body, in an
attempt to rediscover the realm of Spirit. When you do this, the body of
the fetus goes numb, that is, *life force* is withdrawn from it. And as it
grows, the nervous system adapts to the level of *life force* that is
flowing through it, and that is what comes from you and not from
another. So that anytime during this period of nine months, you are in a
particular universe, you're having physical experience, not unlike one
who is sixty years old in the physical dimension. You are experiencing
the sensory realm of third dimensionality. And you are already being
deeply influenced by psychic patterns not your own.

<!-- Track t7 -->

Therefore, the journey of awakening requires, from the moment of birth
on, the development of certain motor skills, certain verbal skills,
certain social skills, so that hopefully, if you're very lucky, by the
time you're about twenty or twenty-one years of age, you're ready to
start finding out who *you* are. It is very, very rare for an individual,
especially in your cultural time frame, to emerge at the age of ten or
twelve or fourteen or seventeen with a deep sense of themselves *apart
from* the parents, the family or the culture. You *think* you are yourself,
but you are really a *bundle of reactivity* seeking to find approval,
seeking to find safety, survival, friendship--*in the world*. That is,
you are already caught up in the perception that what you experience is
coming *to* you from the *outside*, and that you must, therefore, seek to
adapt yourself to it. *You are not yet alive.*

If you are very, very fortunate, during the time frame of the twenties,
you merely experience greater degrees of freedom, greater degrees of
making your own decisions and experiencing the outcomes. This can be a
very turbulent time. Still, you will *believe* that you know yourself, and
yet you have not even begun to know yourself. And again, this is for the
majority.

As you go into your thirties, there is an opportunity now. Spirit begins
to speak to you. Situations begin to emerge that require of you deeper
understanding. If you're very, very fortunate, you will have begun to
realize the great influence that the parents have had. Usually, this is
a state of rebellion. Internally, you will begin to individuate more
clearly. The *spiritual search* often begins in the thirties in earnest.
You may have been aware of that earlier in the twenties. Again, this is
not a hard and fast rule, but generally, by the thirties, it is time to
*truly, truly* begin to answer the yearning of the soul.

Now, if the egoic consciousness has been fundamentally successful, that
is, you've found a way to create your survival, you've developed what
are called the personalities that allow you to interact with the
insanity of the third-dimensional human realm, if you've had no major
calamities or traumas, if you've had no major failures, you might
continue into your forties with the smugness of thinking that you've got
it all together. If you have found ways to avoid the fundamental gnawing
question:

> What is my purpose? Why have I really come to this planet? I am more
> than just this. I am Pure Soul. I am Pure Spirit. I know there's more to
> it than this...

If you've been able to successfully keep yourself distracted, that
question may not yet have fully arisen.

The egoic consciousness is merely that part of the body-mind that is
responsible for keeping you physically alive. It is fueled by the desire
for survival, the desire for safety. It wishes to create a certain set
of order around you, because through order it can anticipate what will
be required to keep the physiological organism functioning.

Now, what occurs is that somewhere along the line, usually very, very
early in life, you begin to identify with the egoic mind and include
your psychic state, your mental perceptions. The *ideas* you begin to
learn about the world begin to be enfolded in the physiological
individual, which is really the home of the ego. *The body is the home of
the ego*, the body-mind, including the brain structure and the higher
dimensions of functionality of the body, which is all the brain is, just
a higher level of organizational principles and characteristics--to do
what? To help the body function.

So a further step of forgetting who you are occurs when you begin to
sense yourself as *identified with* the particular perceptions, the
particular belief structures, that are floating around in the higher
mind of the body, itself. You have forgotten the soul. You have
forgotten Spirit. You've become identified as an American, as an
Afro-American, as a Caucasian, as a boy, as a girl, as a fan of some
sports team, as a lover of ice cream. You begin to take on and create
what are called *principles*, never realizing that the principles often
are merely the *product*, or the outcome, of your *social learning* from the
time you were in the womb, and from the time that you were *conditioned*
by the schooling of your culture.

Many of you have gone so far as to believe that you are an Alabaman, or
a Washingtonian, or a Californian, because someone has told you that
that's where you live. And though you've never found a boundary upon the
face of the Earth that says,

> Here is California and here is Nevada,

you have found a sign that someone has created and you have read it, and
believed it, and have created an *identification* with one small aspect of
life. Many of you are only now emerging to sense yourself as a *global
citizen*, something that transcends being an American or a Canadian or a
South African or a Russian.

<!-- Track t8 -->

So you begin to sense, by what we're sharing, this process whereby you
keep making yourself smaller and smaller and smaller and smaller, taking
on psychic patterns from the parents, from the peers, from the society
around you. The spiritual path begins when, for some reason, something
begins to whisper to you,

> This is not who you are. This is not why you've come. You've come to
> heal your sense of separation from God. You've come to realize the
> Truth.

Egoic consciousness, then, begins with the *shock* at the moment of
conception that brings your attention to be completely fixated on, and
as, the physiological form beginning to emerge from a certain web of
relationship. This begins to *color* your vision, *color* your
understanding. It gives you your unique individuality in the world. As
you grow, as you emerge, as you move through certain experiences, you
become *colored* by what you've had to do to survive. You become *colored*
by the psychic imprints of those around you. You think you're thinking
your own thoughts, when what is often the case is that you're merely
parroting all that has come into your computer bank, into the brain and
into the body.

Now, it is quite true that this all began because there was a *resonance*
between the web of relationships of the parents, and of the society, and
where your own unique quality of consciousness was, prior to birth. In
this sense, karma can be said to exist. Karma simply means *action, the
effect of*, so that when you drop a pebble in the pond, you create a
certain ripple. As long as you continue that ripple, by dropping the
same pebble in the pond, you get the same results. And part of those
results is the need to be identified with only this vibrational field of
energy called physicality.

Until you decide to *change the momentum* of the ripples you are creating
in the depth of the mind, you cannot begin to *ascend* from the third
dimension. The desire to do so is always within you. That is, it may be
dormant, but the desire to know God must *necessarily* be within each
soul, since God is your Reality. You have fallen asleep, and at some
point, there comes the urge to awaken. When it comes, it is
*unmistakable*. The fireworks may not occur, but a *shift happens* within
your beingness and you *know* that you can never return to the way it was.
You can never again *pretend* that life is only what you see through the
senses.

<!-- Track t9 -->

Now, the soul begins to speak. The connection that was once lost begins
to be reestablished. It was never really lost, it was just forgotten, it
was suppressed. It became the background instead of the foreground. It
begins to whisper in the depth of your being. It comes to you in the
form of your dreams. You begin to notice books that you never noticed
before. You might wander into your New Age section of the bookstore, not
even understanding what compelled you to do so. And there, you pick up a
copy of *The Jeshua Letters*, or *A Course in Miracles*, or some other such
book, that begins to trigger within you a *thirst* and a *longing*. A friend
suddenly invites you to come to some funny workshop, the kind you've
never been to before. And yet, when you go, something triggers you,
something touches you. Something begins to awaken. You may not notice
it, but it actually triggers a physiological state within the body,
within what is called the *chakra system*. The *heart* begins to stir in its
slumber. And the mind *thirsts* for *knowledge*, a knowledge unlike any that
it has gathered in its identification with egoic consciousness.

The longing to awaken has come. And from this moment, though you don't
understand it, you begin to attract, slowly at first, perhaps stumbling
a bit now and then, exactly those situations that will keep prodding you
to look deeper. A meditation teacher comes. A prayer group comes that
you feel called to join. You begin the process of your study. And a new
question is emerging. No longer,

> How can I survive?

No longer,

> How can I make money? How can I do all these things?

A new question comes:

> Who am I?

There may be many forms to it, but the question remains one:

> Who am I? What am I? From where have I come? What is life...God?
> What is God? How can there be anything at all?

These questions begin to stir in the mind. Often they first make their
appearance in some form around the age of ten to twelve, as you enter
into a stage of life that is your first taste of *individuation*. That is,
you begin to sense that you are--just like when the child was born, it
began to sense that it was *other than* the mother's body--at around the
age of ten to twelve you begin to sense that you are *other than* the
mother/father, that there's something that wants to think for itself and
be for itself. Often those questions will begin to come, that's the
first stirring. *Usually*, those questions are not attended to. There's
much too much else to do. You still need to learn to think. You still
need to learn to drive a car. You still need to learn to balance a
checkbook.

Later, those questions occur again, generally in the early to
mid-twenties. But again, the momentum is to become established as a
physiological being, and so the questions are suppressed. Into the
thirties, and most definitely by the forties, those questions begin to
press up upon the consciousness. You know how to make money. You know
how to balance a checkbook. You've done these things in the world.
You've had sex, you've baked cakes, hmm? You've thrown birthday parties.
You've gotten drunk. You've done it all, hmm? But something else is
gnawing--something else is gnawing.

This is also a point of great challenge:

> What will I be committed unto--Love or fear? Will fear run me? Will the
> very principles that I've identified myself with, and have utilized to
> ensure my survival, my ordering of life--will these things become more
> important than realizing the Self?

Hmm? Awakening the Christ within. For you see, awakening requires a
*dismantling* of the structures of consciousness by which you've been
ordering your perceptions of the third dimension. Ultimately, to truly
awaken completely requires the dismantling of very subtle, deeply
embedded patterns of perception that were already making up the soul
*prior to* your incarnation in this life. The slate must be wiped clean so
that all that remains is the Reality of Spirit, with no filament or
trace of egoic consciousness left. That is not an easy thing to do, yet
it requires no effort, save the effort to Love. Love is the great
healer. Love--that which erases the imprints in the depth of the subtle soul.

The patterns that you brought forth with you as a soul are like a
magnet, that is, they attract energy states in the physical dimension
experience that are resonant with those patterns. Often, when you say
you 'fall in love,' it's just that you've come into contact with another
field of energy that happens to fit, hand-in-glove, with the very
patterns of consciousness that you carry in the depth of your being. Old
memories of other incarnations are triggered when you visit a certain
physical location. And the emotion feels so good and warm in the heart,

> Surely this is where I must live on this planet. This is with whom I
> must spend my life.

Hmm? And yet, all of it is emerging as the result of your *karma*, that
is, the *patterns* and the *effects* that have come from those patterns.

<!-- Track t10 -->

Awakening does require *vigilance*. Awakening requires that rather than merely
going with the reactions of the third-dimensional being, you begin to
*question*, you begin to *observe*, you begin to feel, you begin to *think*
more deeply. You begin to engage yourself in some form of spiritual practice.
And whether it be meditation or prayer - or what have you--all of these things
are modalities which *interrupt* the *momentum* of the soul, which is normally
caught up with its third-dimensional experience. You interrupt the pattern of
being caught up in the world long enough to sit quietly for half an hour, or to
chant, or to walk--you do *something* in a different way. You're beginning to
*turn the momentum of the mind back upon itself*. You're beginning to become
*self-observant* rather than *world observant*.

Now, for all of you that would like to quicken and hasten that process,
the answer is very simple: *spend more time becoming self-observant*; less
time being concerned with what's going on in the world; and *no* time
blaming the world for your state of being--not parents, not society,
not God--but *owning*. And here is an important word that we will share
with you. You've heard it many times before, but when you truly reach a
point of assuming one hundred percent--all--*responsibility* for what
you think, what you feel, what you see, what you experience, this
creates a *quantum leap* in the other direction, toward self-observation,
toward the freedom that you are seeking, toward the healing of the soul,
toward the realization of your purpose, toward freedom, toward
awakening. Without it, the spiritual journey never quite gets off the
ground--you could say almost literally! You never quite ascend, and
indeed you cannot ascend, without the *assumption of complete
responsibility*. You must extricate yourself from the psychic enmeshment
with other webs of relationship in the sense that you've come to
perceive that *they* are *causing* your decisions. In other words, *you must
assume power*.

You are well aware of those in your third-dimensional reality who assume
power. You sometimes love them or loathe them, but they are powerful.
Can you assume the same power in your own life? Can you come to look at
your beloved, if you're in relationship, and say:

> You know something, this being is not causing how I feel. This being can
> never fulfill me. This being has nothing that I can extricate from them
> in order to fill up my sense of lack. I am alone in my journey to God,
> for I abide alone in God. That is, I'm an individuated spark of
> divinity. It's <span class='tr_normal'>within me</span>. The Kingdom of Heaven is 
> <span class='tr_normal'>within me</span>. What I am
> seeking is within me. What fulfills me must come forth from <span class='tr_normal'>within</span>.

This is why once I said,

> If you do not bring forth what is within you, what is within you will
> destroy you. If you bring forth what is within you, what is within you
> will save you.

If you do not bring forth what is within you--and what is within you is
Love, is Christ--you will feel burdened and unfulfilled. And usually,
most human beings go through their entire life with a sense of
unfulfillment, lamenting what the world has done *to them*, lamenting the
decisions and choices they've made in the past. They become burdened by
what is on the outside, along with what is in the past. And eventually
the body dies, the spirit withers on the vine. And at death, another
quantum leap occurs that is *shocking* as they discover themselves to be
popped back into another vibrational state that often triggers great
fear.

Very few beings upon your human plane have entered death *consciously*. It
is indeed time, even for those of you that listen to this tape, to
simply make a decision:

> I will enter into the transition, called death, with 
> <span class='tr_normal'>deliberate consciousness</span>. 
> I will make sure, by beginning now, that I carry no
> resentment, that I have forgiven everyone of everything. And as the body
> does enter that state, I will release the world and require nothing of
> it. I will not long to run off in freedom, but I will experience death
> <span class='tr_normal'>consciously</span>. I'll notice the subtle energy changes as I flip from this
> dimension into another at the speed of Light.

<!-- Track t11 -->

Beloved friends, come to understand, at this stage of our journey
together, the *true immensity* of *who you are* and *what you are*. That you
are not so much dealing with 'things' in the world as *patterns of energy*
that reflect in some way what is already occurring in *your*
consciousness. If you're experiencing things in the third-dimensional
plane, it can mean only that you have chosen to vibrate at a certain
frequency--or otherwise, you couldn't have the experience. You couldn't
have the experience of running into a wall with your body unless you
were vibrating at the same rate as the wall.

Is it possible to change the vibrational frequency of the physical body?
Listen very carefully. I'm going to say something rather unique. I'm
going to say, no. It is only possible to change the vibrational
frequency of your *consciousness, out of which* the body has emerged.

This requires a *turning about in the seat of the soul*, a changing of the
momentum of consciousness--not outward, but *inward*. Not as an escape
from the world--it isn't something you have to do all day, everyday.
But you spend time in prayer and meditation. You spend time in
forgiveness. You spend time breathing and relaxing. You begin to allow
changes to occur in the choices you are making, so they come more into
alignment with your growing understanding of yourself as a creator, as a
soul. You begin to change your environment. You paint the color of the
walls of your bedroom a different color, that which brings a sense of
pleasantness to you. You change your physical environment completely by
moving into a different apartment. Many of you know perfectly well that
often it means the changing of relationships. And initially, this does
make sense.

But there is a *point* in which you realize that you could keep changing
relationships *ad nauseum* and never get anywhere--that now it's time to
*settle down*, be with the one you're with--or the ones you're with--and
yet utilize your time with them to discover what *patterns* have been
running you. *Self-awareness*...turning the momentum of the mind back
toward the Self:

> Why do I think what I think? Why did I see what I saw? Why did I react
> the way that I reacted?

Eventually, the soul that is *truly committed* to awakening does not flee
uncomfortable situations until it believes it has fully extracted all
the wisdom that it can. There is a way of knowing when that occurs, and
we'll get to that at a later time. In short, when there is just a quiet
sense of peace, and you can look upon the players in the experiences
you've just had with perfect equanimity and see them as perfectly
innocent, and you detect that there is nothing in the body that is not
at peace--the heart is not racing, the shoulders are not tight--you
truly understand that you are not in fear, then it is time to move on.
If there is *reactivity* in the mind because of anything that emerges in
your relationship with your brothers or sisters, rest assured, the
lesson is not complete. If your 'principles' have been 'violated,' rest
assured, there is much to be learned.

Remember always, that all events are *neutral*. And in a large measure,
the process of awakening is a process whereby you *dissolve the value* you
have placed upon certain ideas and perceptions of what life is and what
life is for. Yes, there are times you will be troubled, as you come to
realize that what you *thought* the world was for, and everything you've
been putting your energy into, means *nothing*. Often, this precipitates a
period of what has been called by certain mystics the Dark Night of the
Soul. It's really not the *Dark Night of the Soul*. It's the *Dark Night of
the Ego*, and the *Healing of the Soul*.

<!-- Track t12 -->

*The Way of Transformation* requires *utmost personal responsibility,
utmost personal dedication*. No one can do it for you. And the patterns
you feel weighed down by, the fears that are yet within the mind, will
remain with you for all of eternity--until you decide to *heal* them.
From that desire you will attract the situations, the teachers, the
books, the experiences that provide for you the opportunity to do so.
There is an acceleration of the healing process *only when* you *completely
release* any valuation on victimhood--that is, the belief that,

> Somehow, in some way, someone or something has done something to me.

Now, that's a simple thought to hear, and one can nod their head. It is
another thing to look *honestly* upon your reactions in life to make sure
that you are not, at any time, perceiving yourself as a victim. The
practice of extending Love can often teach you that this is so. When you
take a situation that pushes your buttons, and you decide to not flee,
but stay, this teaches you the Truth of your Reality.

This is why the practice of forgiveness is so *extraordinarily
valuable*.  In fact, you could say that, ultimately, the practice of
forgiveness is the whole of spirituality, since forgiveness means to let
the world off the hook, to step out of any sense of victim
consciousness, and then even beyond that, to *forgive one's self* for
the perceptions they have made in error--perceptions of one's brothers
and sisters, of the world, and of God. Ultimately, forgiveness is
forgiveness of one's self for ever allowing delusion to settle into
one's own mind, whereby one perceived one's self as separate from God,
separate from brothers and sisters, capable of being victimized.
Forgiveness, when completed, *is* the establishment of Love.

Beloved friends, look well, then, to see,

> Where am I perceiving myself as a victim of the world I see? Am I
> feeling constrained in my relationship? Do I resent my spouse?

The spouse is not holding you where you are. And that one does not have
the power to take from you your ability to look with Love upon her or
him.

Is it your job you hate? No one forces you to drive your car upon the
freeway to arrive at your place of employment--no one.

> Oh, but I must survive!

Then you have made yourself a victim of the perception of the need to
survive. Any one of you at any time is perfectly free to drop the
valuation you have placed upon the world.

I was once criticized for dropping the valuation that my particular
society had sought to implant within me, the valuation that said that a
son should follow in the footsteps of the father, that if the father is
a carpenter, then you've got to take over the family business. I said,

> I must be about my Father's business.

And I spoke, of course, of my Heavenly Father. I had to know the Truth
of who I was, and my purpose was to awaken Christ. I broke the mores,
the rules, of the family structure within that community, within that
time frame. Like many of you, I was a bit of a rebel. And where other
children were conforming to the pressures of society, I went off to
study with the rabbis and teachers, to sit in the desert at night, often
not to return. Even at the age of twelve I separated myself from my
parents at the time of a great festival, and went to hang out in my
Father's house and talk with the spiritual leaders.

Are *you* willing to break with the conventions of the world in which you
live? This can be as simple as, instead of gathering with friends to
watch movies on Saturday night, you say,

> No, I'm going to go into my closet and light a candle and pray...for
> six hours.

And when they look at you with their eyebrows raised, you simply smile.

In what ways are you conforming to the views others hold of you and
*their* need to have you be a certain way? Do you show up at the aunt's
birthday party just because the family says you always should, yet in
your *heart* you have no desire to? The willingness to trust and follow
your heart, not the reactive ego that is often interpreted to be the
heart, but the heart that longs to know God--this is a telltale sign of
whether or not one is achieving maturity. Beloved friends, look well, in
this *Way of Transformation*, for you *must discover* any corner of the mind
that is yet holding out the view that life is something which happens to
you, and that there is something you are helpless to change. The
position of being a victim is a position of loss of power. And Christ is
not about loss of power. Ultimately, it is not so much about going
anywhere, as much as it is about abiding within, realizing that this
world is unreal, this world is harmless. And in any situation, it is *you*
with all power under Heaven and Earth to teach only Love.

But that requires, you see, that you let the world off the hook, that no
one and nothing is any longer responsible for your joy, your happiness
and your peace. For you have established your unity with Spirit, with
God. You've realized the Self, and you look out with equanimity upon a
neutral world. And as this physical universe fades from view for the
final time, within you will be no compulsion to avoid it, or to enter
it, for you will be free--free even as you walk this Earth. The body
moves, the soul does not. The mind thinks, but the *depth* of the mind is
as still as the ocean. You live, yet not you, for Christ dwells in you.
And wherever you go, the presence of peace enters the room before you.
You are awake, you are free--all because once you made a decision to
give up victimhood, and to assume responsibility for learning how, in
all situations, to be only the presence of Love.

<!-- Track t13 -->

So, again you can see that we've made a bit of a continuation. And we
will continue to continue until what has occurred within your
consciousness is that you have begun to remember the journey that you
have taken.

Turn back, then, toward your creations. If there is anything
uncomfortable about your past, *turn back to it, examine it, feel it*,
look at all the patterns that made it come up. Look at the choices
you've made that, perhaps now, you are embarrassed about. But look not
upon them with judgment. Look with curiosity. Learn to look with wonder
and the innocence of a child:

> Well, that was an interesting decision I made, when I was twelve, to
> steal my neighbor's bicycle. I remember how I ended up in juvenile hall.
> Hmm...what was going on just before I made that decision? What
> pattern was running me? Oh, my goodness! I was looking to get attention
> from my Dad. Wow! So the need for approval was running me. How
> fascinating! How is that pattern running me now? Is there any trace of
> it left--still needing approval of another?

I say this unto you: Every moment of experience you've ever had is
*available* for you, right down to the moment of conception, right down to
the quantum leap that you took from a certain vibrational frequency into
this physical domain. *Self-awareness is everything*, for it is the Self
with a capital S that you most long to realize.

Beloved friends, we love you, but we *cannot* make your journey for you.
We can only walk with you on the way that you choose. You can utilize
your relationship with me and with Shanti Christo to fully awaken. Or,
you can come close, and then decide it's uncomfortable, and run away
again. You will only run to another structure or form of energy, a web
of relationships, that forces you to stay with what is uncomfortable in order
to learn, in order to grow, in order to heal, *in order to Love*--not as
a cursory,

> Oh well, yes, I love you.

No--but something done *whole-bodily* in which there is no longer any
reactivity filtering through the nervous system of the body-brain. For
the ultimate state of consciousness is not an aversion of this world,
but the *embracing* of this world. There is no greater sense of freedom
than to be able to abide where you are as one who is free.

Be you, therefore, at peace this day, beloved friends.

Be you, therefore, at peace always.

Amen.

