---
title: "Lesson Seven"
toc:
- Question One
---

Now, we begin.

And indeed, greetings unto you once again, beloved and holy Children of
Light Divine. Once again, it is our *honor* to come forth and abide with
you, to communicate with you in this manner and in this hour. We come
forth, yet again, to join with you because the sole purpose of Creation
is to extend the *good*, the *holy*, and the *beautiful*.

And what greater *good* could there be than to create a medium of
communication that can call forth from the Christ Mind to every aspect
of the Sonship in such a way that that mind is stirred to seek ways to
heal its illusions and therefore return home to the recognition of what
has never changed?

What could be more *holy* than to use each moment of relationship in the
recognition that only God’s Children can truly relate one to another,
and that the purpose of their relationship is to heal illusion, that the
*holy* might be extended?

And what could be more *beautiful* than to join together--you and we--in
this moment, to recognize that what is truly *beautiful* is the
recognition that *I and my Father are One*?

Therefore, the extension of the *good*, the *holy* and the *beautiful* needs
to become *your sole purpose*--as it has become ours. For only when the
mind is used for this purpose alone can there be the perfect remembrance
of the Kingdom. And you have sought us out because you desire the
Kingdom, because the weight of your illusions has become too painful.
The games that you have sought to play within the dream of separation no
longer satisfy, no longer seduce you, no longer gratify your
imagination. And beneath all dreams, you have heard the call of the One
who sent you forth, and asks you,

> Little child, return! I am with you still.
> 
> Let us create together the good, the holy, and the beautiful.

The only difference that can yet *seem* to remain between us and yourself
is that all of us involved in this work, from what you might perceive to
be the “other side,” are merely beings, aspects of Mind like yourself,
that, within the illusion of time, within the playing out of time, *seem*
to have chosen before you to heal all illusion and return home.
Therefore, we call to you from across the very thin veil of illusions
that yet seems to keep you where you are--seemingly separate from us.

That illusion, by the way, is not the physical body, nor is it the
physical dimension, since in Reality, the physical dimension does not
exist. What exists is *thought*, streaming forth from mind, creating, or
outpicturing, that which has been held within the mind. So the very
physical body becomes only a *symbol* of what the mind has decided to
believe:

> Surely, I am separate from God. That is the outpicturing I want. So I
> will look upon a physical body, identify myself with it, and therefore
> seem to peer out from the body and see great distance between myself and
> others. And if there is a great distance between myself and other bodies
> or forms, then surely there is an unfathomable gulf between myself and
> God.

But when perception has been cleansed, when perception has been
purified, the body, itself, becomes *transparent* to consciousness, to the
witnessing awareness of mind. And it sees no longer that with which it
is identified. It sees only the phenomena of mental energy temporarily
being played out in the field of space and time.

The body, itself, no longer becomes a barrier or obstacle to overcome.
The body, itself, no longer is seen, or perceived, as something that can
bring Love to it, or can reach out and attract or draw to itself what
has been perceived as valuable in the world. Rather, the body becomes
one thing: a temporary opportunity to extend the good, the holy, and the
beautiful. In other words, even the body, itself, *can have no purpose*,
save that which the Comforter, the Holy Spirit, the Right-mindedness
within you, would give to the body.

Therefore, if you would know a body at peace, if you would know a body
that serves only the function of being a communication device for the
Love of God, cease in perceiving it *as your own*, and *give up* the
apparent right to make decisions *for yourself*, in regard to the body.

We have suggested to you before that you cease using the term “my” or
“mine” whenever you refer to the body. Merely refer to it as “*the* body”
— as a carpenter would pick up a tool and say, “the hammer, the saw,” or
an artist would say, “the brush.” For the wise carpenter does not
identify himself with the hammer or saw, and the wise artist does not
feel neglected when the brush is laying in a tray. Wisdom, then, looks
upon form as merely temporary communication devices. The *delight* is to
extend the good, the holy, and the beautiful.

<!-- Track t2 -->

Illusions can seem to take many forms, yet they all have one source: a
*decision* to perceive oneself as separate from God. The best way to do
that is to convince yourself that because you are separate from God,
there must be many things about you and your life that are out of
alignment with the Will of God. Therefore, you will manifest many
variations that seem to express the instability which *is* the effect of
that one belief, one perception:

> I am separate from God. I have accomplished the impossible. Let me keep
> it in place.

Illusions, then, while the form of them may seem to be many, are really
one. And healing occurs when, in the depth of the mind, the decision is
made to *surrender*, to give up the insane idea that one’s self could
possibly exist apart from the Mind of God.

*Surrender* means to *settle into the position of the servant*, the *conduit*
through which the Mind of God, the Love of God, can be expressed. The
mind that exists in perfect surrender sees absolutely no purpose to any
moment of experience save this. The mind in perfect surrender looks out
upon a world that has been healed from its own misperception that the
world has had power over it. It sees that at no time has it experienced
anything but its own outpicturing. This is why all events are neutral.
It is *mind* that interprets an event, draws a conclusion, and then bases
behavior upon it.

The mind that is healed, and that rests in surrender, looks out upon an
innocent world that has been touched by *its* blessing of forgiveness. And
that forgiveness is simply a step in which that mind recognizes that the
world it had thought was there was nothing more than its own mental
creation--and smiles and laughs and sees that the world has held no
power, and that all events that have arisen, all *interpretations* of
events, have been generated from within the kingdom of the mind--the
one place that it is given unto you to assume responsibility for, as
*your* domain.

The mind that has been healed of illusion has been healed of *all*
illusions. And while time and space seem to last, the last outpicturing
of a tiny, mad idea--called the physical body--can be given over to
something else, can be transformed into a simple communication device
that no longer communicates separation and judgment, but rather,
forgiveness and innocence. It becomes nothing. And it is picked up and
used only in those ways that can speak, gesture, move, act, make
something in the world that touches the world with the blessing of the
good, the holy, and the beautiful.

Because this is simply the Truth, it must mean that where you perceive
justification for anything less than peace, it must mean that you have
already decided, in the deeper part of your mind, to maintain this root,
or core, misperception. That is, you are still attempting to perceive
yourself as having accomplished the impossible--to have separated
yourself from the Mind of God.

The mind that is surrendered looks out upon all things and quietly says
within itself,

> There has only been God. And I am the Created of That. And the source of
> my being, the source of my reality, rests in surrender into That, and
> That alone.

The mind that is surrendered, yet walks in your world as long as the
body lasts--and is often completely unrecognized by others around it,
for others see a body and therefore assume there is an individual, an
ego, a separated being within it as that body--you could say that body
walks as an empty shell and is merely waiting to be *in*formed by the Love
of God. And when the Love of God does not inform you or ask you to move
and take action, then simply rest and do nothing. This is why the final
state of awakening is incomprehensible in the languages of your world,
since your languages are based on the very thought of separation,
itself.

<!-- Track t3 -->

This is why, when we speak of peace, we speak of that peace which is
*beyond all understanding*. For the peace that you can *understand* in the
languages of your world are conditional *peaces*, the kind you create when
two warring nations sit down with suits and ties on and forget the body
counts and the destroyed villages. And they sign some document with a
pen. They put on a “front” and smile for the pictures, and then they
assume--and teach everybody else to assume--that now there is peace.
Then each goes back and secretly continues to build weapons of defense
against the attack sure to come from the one still perceived as an
enemy.

Peace cannot be bargained for. It is not the result of compromise. Peace
comes *only* when any mind surrenders *unconditionally* the dream of the
dreamer him or herself, so that there is only God and God’s creation.
And we have shared with you before that that creation is one--the
Christ Mind. And that Mind is not in body. It is not a particular form,
and certainly does not belong to any personal entity. I was never “The
Christ,” as though you are not. Like you, I was a temporary modification
of eternal energy, an outpicturing of a thought, a mental thought, held
in mind, which learned to surrender the misperception of the dreamer,
and became *in*formed only by Christ Mind. Only that Mind was present, and
yet it could not be touched through the body. That is why my
crucifixion had no effect on me, whatsoever. It merely sped up the
process whereby the body was dissolved away as an idea.

Beloved friends, those of you that have been with us monthly, so
consistently, come now in your understanding, as we take pause slightly
from all of the technical work we’ve been doing of late, to change how
you use consciousness. Take pause with us to remember the Truth: *The
world that you look out upon is innocent*. The *cause* of the world is not
*found* in the world, but only in the thoughts held within the mind. You
remain perfectly free to choose to *perceive* differently. You remain free
at all times to see that you are not the victim of circumstance, not the
victim of a relationship, a career, what you call being born into a
certain nation. You are never the victim of anything, since nothing
within an illusion holds the power to truly have any effect on you. You
are the one who remains free to assume responsibility for the domain of
your mind. You are the one who is free to simply say,

> Father, nevertheless, not my will but Thine be done.

And what will does the Father have, save that you be happy, by returning
to the peace that forever passes all understanding? What could your
Father will for you, but that you awaken from the dream that there is
something *in* the world that can add value to you; that there is someone,
some career, some location, some what-have-you that can actually *add*
substance to your being? And better than this, to become freed of the
perception that the *lack* of someone, something, some career, some
location, some form of any kind, could *detract* from your being, from
your perfect power of union with God.

Peace, then, comes from a decision, and then a decision that is put into
practice over time, in which the world is *released*. And released from
what? From your belief that *it* should somehow be for you the conduit
whereby you *gain* good feelings, love, peace, wisdom, ideas, comradeship,
and even brother- or sisterhood.

<!-- Track t4 -->

Detachment does not mean avoidance, but it does mean *dis-identification*
with a mistaken idea. All suffering stems from this: identification of
the deep mind, or the soul, with the forms that pass as outpicturings in
this illusion...the belief that *loss* is possible and also that *gain*
is possible. There can only be the recognition of what is true through
the practice of extending the *good*, the *holy*, and the *beautiful*.

When the mind reaches this following point, the end of illusion is very,
very near. When any mind looks out upon its creations, that it has
attempted to make of itself, and finds all of it lacking--something
missing, the life is simply not there--when that mind simply decides to
withdraw the value it has placed on the world, and rests into the simple
desire to be with God, then Heaven is but a step away.

And that final step is taken *by* your Creator *for* you.

The dream of separation has been your responsibility. When you reach
that point of collapsing, so to speak, or surrendering, you enter into
the stage of *restoration*, or *salvation*. And *that* is in the hands of your
Creator. When restoration has been completed, and the mind no longer
seeks to journey out into the fields of illusion, but simply rests,
empty, at One with God, *then* creation can begin anew, and co-creation is
in the hands of both you *and* your Creator. The only difference is that
you are no longer a separate being, like a gnat shouting at the
universe, demanding that things be done your way. But rather, you are
empty.

You are the paradox of all paradoxes, for you are filled, and only
Christ abides. And yet, not you lives, but only That One. And even the
arising and the passing away of the body is of no concern for you. You
merely rise in the morning and simply say,

> Father, how would you have me be present this day?

And something else *in*forms your steps and your decisions. And you are no
longer *identified* with the *fruit* of your action. You are no longer
concerned with how it may look, or how it may compare to somebody else’s
action. You merely abide where you are, doing what you’re doing,
offering it freely, because you are no longer attached to it.

<!-- Track t5  -->

*Peace* is the essence of the message that we would share with you in this
hour...again, as a temporary break, a temporary resting period, from
the work that we’ve been doing this year. Rest assured, there is much
more to be done. For when the mind is surrendered, resistance dies to
the very extension of Creation. And that mind no longer seeks to leave
any dimension whatsoever, for where would it go? It merely becomes one
willing to enact whatever is being extended to it from the Mind of God,
as a way of being involved with the extension of Love.

That requires, then, learning how to use consciousness differently. But
it is all predicated on a return to peace. That is why, above *all*
things, your responsibility is to enter into *surrender*--to let the tiny
mad idea of a separate self be dissolved entirely from the mind, so that
there is only the Mind of Christ.

Beloved friends, pause then, in this moment. Observe the place that you
are. In Truth, is there anything around you in your current environment
that could *add* anything to your substance? If you could find a way to
possess it or digest it, would it puff you up? It might add a few pounds
if you happen to have ice cream in front of you! But that is only to the
body.

Likewise, as you look upon your environment, imagine if the things
around you were taken away. Would that *take* anything *from* you? And if
you can feel the simple Truth of the questions that we are asking, then
surely you can come to sense that just beneath your involvement in the
world of form, *peace is already available*, because Love waits on your
welcome.

Will the world of form seek to pull you into identification with it? Oh,
yes, because that is part of the very outpicturing you once created:

> Would that I could create a world that will pull at me so much that it
> will distract me from the one thing I need to do. And when it does, I
> can say that, well, I’d be awake now, except that all of these other
> things, and all of these other people, need my attention more than God.
> And so, if only they would go away, I could know God. If I could just
> disappear into a cave somewhere, or a cell in a monastery, and shut out
> the world, <span class="tr_normal">then</span> I could know God.

That approach never works.

*Recognition* is not dependent on any specific state of body or lower
mind. It is not necessary to spend endless hours in meditation seeking
to quiet the mind. It is only necessary to withdraw value from what
arises in the field of the lower mind, so that, quite naturally, what
arises, what is recognized, is the *perfect value* that is held in *your
prior union* with God. This is why awakening, salvation, or
enlightenment, is not a change at all, merely a recognition of what has
always been, what will always be--*eternally*.

Now--in this moment--are you free to choose anew. Now are you free to
rescind your judgments of the world. Now--in this very moment of
eternity--you can choose to recognize that you are already perfectly
*awake*, freely choosing what outpicturings you will pour forth from the
mind; freely choosing whether to think for yourself or to think with
God, whether to believe your outpicturings, or to see them as temporary
clouds passing through an infinite sky that the clouds have never
affected or influenced. You are free now to simply say within yourself,

> I can choose peace instead of this. I am surrendered, and nothing
> matters save the extension of the good, the holy, and the beautiful.
> Therefore, Father, in this moment what is Your Will for me?

Empty of self, empty of striving, empty of the need to be right, the
need to judge, the need to perceive anything in any certain way at all
... Freed from attachment to the *fruit* of your action and yet,
paradoxically, allowing creativity to flow through you, trusting that
there is already a greater Mind that knows how best to serve the
Atonement--the uplifting of the whole of the Sonship, every brother and
every sister, who are but aspects of Mind...not your mind, for your
mind is an aspect of Mind...points of light, seemingly fragmented
from the One Mind, the One Light.

Free to see (and please listen carefully)--*right where you are*--free
to see that the separation never occurred. And all attempts to keep it
in place have been like battling for the rights of a chimera to exist;
like insisting that the illusion of an oasis seen in a desert is truly
real, and instead of going to the location and finding out what is real
and what is false, standing there bickering with your arms folded across
your chest arguing for the right to be right...while Reality slips
through your fingers. All the while, you’re standing next to a beautiful
spring which bubbles forth with the purest of waters. You are free now
to entertain one idea totally insane to the world:

> I am awake now. My dream has not occurred. No separation has occurred.
> No distance has been traveled. Grace has already restored me, and I am
> free to perceive the real world.

<!-- Track t6 -->

We would ask, then, of you this: each of you who will be listening to
this tape, to spend some time doing what we just suggested--to sit
quietly and ask the questions that were asked just a few minutes ago
about adding and subtracting from you, or to you. Sit with the words
just uttered, over and over again, without being in a hurry, without
struggling. And see if you can touch the place that knows the Truth of
those words, so that that Truth is *felt* to be your own. Then, and only
then, will you finally begin to dissolve the power that you have given
to the ego. And what is the ego but the bundle of sensations and
perceptions and outpicturings that are the very *attempt* to do the
impossible, to be separate from God? Would you be willing to surrender
that value, to rescind it, to bring it back to your heart and soul, and
then offer it to your Creator?

Here, then, is the point of *conversion*, the turning about in the seat of
the soul that must be reached by anyone who, in Truth, would seek God:
to realize that they live, yet not themselves, but That One who extends
power and Life has brought them into being. And they have a function to
fulfill. It is *their* function and no one else’s. And it cannot be
compared. It can only be allowed.

Therefore, spend some time--as much as you want for the next few days
of yours. And by the way, to those of you who feel that you are going to
be “too busy,” then let your time be used in busy-ness, and thereby,
continue to try to convince yourself that the world is real. Wait for a
few days, until you come to your weekend, perhaps. Then when your boss
tells you you have “time off,” then *sit* with the Truth.

For as this Truth settles into the soul, all that we have been doing
prior to this will become easier and make much more sense. And it will
clear the space for what is to come. For when the mind has truly
awakened from illusion, there is nothing left but to be a servant of the
Atonement. And the only question left is,

> Father, how this day might I serve?

<!-- Track t7 -->

And with that, we’ll bring this short message to a close. There is no
need at this point for a continuation of words. There is only the need
for *direct experience* held within the aloneness of your own mind and
being. For revelation is *intensely personal*, and cannot be communicated
to anyone at any time. Yet the revelation that comes to each mind may
come in a unique way, but the revelation is of one Truth. That is why,
when any two beings happen to meet each other who are awake, there is
little to do but smile...and allow the phenomena of Life to
continue.

Therefore, know that we love you greatly. And *we* honor *you* for the
courage it takes to let go of the world and open the palms of the Heart
to the Grace of Heaven.

And rest assured that when we continue in this series, there will be
much to do. But let it be done from the perspective of delightful
innocence, in a mind that recognizes there is nothing else to do with
time except extend the *good*, the *holy*, and the *beautiful*.

We have paused, then, to remind you of peace. We have paused to remind
you of the Truth. Offered to you, it yet remains to be seen whether the
offering will be received.

Peace, then, be unto you always. And go in peace this day.

Amen.

---

## Question One

[*Question One*](/t/wom/wot//l07/q1/): Jeshua states that He has never
enlightened anyone. Yet the Sufi and Hindu traditions, including a
number of gurus, state that they do most of the work for one person.
They say that once someone surrenders to them, through their own God
Consciousness, they can bring that being to Oneness. There are also
traditions which state that one must look into the eyes of a true guru
to become enlightened. Let’s face it, it does sound quicker and easier.
Is this a different state of awareness? Was this tradition meant for a
different era?
{: .omit}

