---
title: "Lesson Eight"
---

Now, we begin.

And indeed, once again, greetings unto you, beloved and holy friends. We
come forth to abide with you because you have asked. We come forth to
abide with you because we are a part of you. We exist where you are. We
abide as the Truth of what you are.

Therefore, beloved friends, please well understand that when we reach
back into time, into the field of what you call *physicality* to create a
communication medium with you, we do not come to you from some other
*location*, we come forth unto you from the depth--the Heart, the Essence
— of that which Mind is, that which Love is, that which Consciousness
emerges from. We come forth from Reality. And we join with you in the
only place that genuine communication can occur--*in Reality*.

This can only mean that in those moments when you *feel*--not merely
intellectually consider--but when you *feel* yourself immediately and
truly comprehending that which is communicated, or mediated by the words
that we would choose, it means that, in that moment, you do not abide in
time, you do not abide in illusion, you abide in Reality. And in *that*
moment, there is, quite literally, *no distance* between us.

We speak here of distance, not just in what you would think of as
physical terms, but there is also no distance between us *qualitatively*.
That is, in that moment when you receive Truth, it is not the case that
we are above you, beyond you, or have even gone ahead of you a little.
You are comprehending the essence of Truth from the essence of Christ
Mind, which is the only Mind that can comprehend the Truth and Reality
of God.

That Truth is necessarily within you, and has been within you since
before the birthing of time. It has been with you since before a tiny,
mad idea seemed to creep across the expanse of your mind and you chose
to believe it. That Reality cannot be taken from you. And it is from
that Reality that you have awareness of your own existence. It is *from*
that Reality that you gather the fuel, so to speak, to create the
perceptions that you most desire. And the perceptions that you *most
desire* are precisely the ones that you are experiencing *in any given
moment*.

Now, to those of you that were abiding in Reality as you heard those
words, you immediately know that that means that at no time and under
any circumstances are your perceptions being, shall we say, thrown upon
you from some source or force outside of you...that in each moment,
you--and you alone--have created the perception, and therefore, the
experience you are having within the field of the mind, for no other
reason than that you have desired it.

This is why the very pathway of awakening, regardless of the form it
takes, is *always* a *retraining* of the mind. It is a *decision* to choose to
discipline the mind in each moment, to teach only Love, to hold only
loving thoughts, to recognize that there is no such thing as an idle
thought, since each thought or perception held in the mind *immediately*
generates your experience. And that experience is like a pebble dropped
into a pond that sends a reverberation, a vibration, throughout the
field of your being. And that field goes far, far beyond what you
commonly perceive to be the boundaries of your body.

Beloved friends, you will only experience what you desire. And that is
why *desire* is always the first and most fundamental key to the process
of awakening. It is why *desire* is the energy known *equally* by *all* minds,
in *all* kingdoms, in *all* dimensions, in all *worlds*. It is by *desire* that
you *choose* to relinquish the value you have placed upon limited
perception. It is by *desire* that you decide to teach only Love. It is by
*desire* that the Kingdom is restored to your mind. For it is by *desire*
that you have been birthed from the Holy Mind of God.

The simplest way to discover what it is that you desire in any moment is
to simply stop and observe,

> What thoughts are currently taking place within my mind? How am I
> perceiving the world that seems to be around the body?

And most especially,

> How am I perceiving myself in this moment?

And with honesty you will see quite quickly and quite easily what it is
you have most desired to experience in this moment.

It can, indeed, be quite shocking when awareness begins to turn back on
itself to *observe* the mechanics of its own thinking processes in the
world, and then to hold the thought that the thoughts that are, indeed,
dancing in the mind are there for no other reason than that they have
been *desired* by the Truth of who you are. And you are that *power*--that
*power*--which has been birthed from the Mind of God...made in God’s
image, that is, with infinite power, to create what you choose to
experience. Desire, then, is integral to the understanding of the very
process of transformation, for what you desire, you *do experience*.

When I walked upon your plane, your planet--which, by the way, does not
exist independent of me even still, and exists *nowhere* save where you
and I are joined as one--and that will give you something to think of...when
I walked upon your planet as a man, seemingly cloaked in a body or as a body,
I, too, had need of learning to observe the nature of my own mind, and to
discover what it was I was desiring in any given moment.

*Vigilance for the Kingdom* means to retrain the mind until it desires
*only* Love, *only* the Kingdom, *only* enlightenment, *only* peace, *only*
Reality. And when the mind has been so retrained, in that moment there
is no longer any sense of a separate self struggling to find God. There
is no longer any sense of a separate self who knows lack. There is no
longer any sense of a separate self that is unworthy of being the
embodiment of Christ. And in that moment, the body can seem to continue
or it could disintegrate.

And, at any rate, the body itself will be perceived in a very different
light. No longer seen as something dense and hard, that seems to
separate you from your brothers or sisters, it is seen only as a dance
of shadow that provides Christ an opportunity, temporarily, to speak the
language of those that believe the body is yet real in order to
communicate, to drop a pebble in the pond, that sends a reverberation, a
vibration, through the body that is *emanated* and is recognized by
everyone--perhaps not accepted, but recognized.

This is why you’ve heard many, many stories, some even related to me,
that when a master, to use that term, walks upon the planet, something
occurs in the energy field, the mind of those in his proximity--or her
proximity. There is an energy that is transmitted. It is not that the
master changes them; it is that the Truth in *them* is suddenly *quickened*
into at least a very temporary *remembrance* of what is true. And an
illusion can be dropped. Or perhaps, all illusions can be dropped.

The body becomes almost a magical means of communication. It appears to
be something solid. It appears to be who you are. And yet, when the mind
has been retrained thoroughly, and purification has been completed, the
body simply becomes transparent and meaningless--except for the
extension of the Light of Love.

Now, I have shared with you many times that to awaken as Christ requires
that you *begin your journey as Christ*. It is not possible to transform
yourself in order to *become* Christ, but it is possible to simply accept
the idea of the Truth, and then let that be the foundation from which
your life expresses itself. So that you begin to *think* with Christ. So
that you begin to *breathe* with Christ. So that you begin to *envision*
with Christ.

*The Way of Transformation*--and please listen carefully--is not a
process of changing the unworthiness in you to the point where, *finally*,
you’re knocking at Heaven’s door, and you then awaken. Rather, *The Way
of Transformation* rests on your decision to accept the Truth that is
true always:

> I and my Father are One. Now that that’s out of the way, how would a
> Christ live in this dimension? How would a Christ bring himself or
> herself to each moment of experience? What voice would Christ listen to?
> What vision would He serve?

The *struggle* to awaken is the very *obstacle* to its accomplishment. And
that is why the five minutes as Christ was given to you as a very simple
exercise. And if, indeed, you desire Christ above all things, would you
not participate in it each day? For that which you *desire* and *love* is
that which pulls your attention to it. If you love Christ, then let
Christ pull you, so to speak, attract you to spending five minutes a day
in the realization that you can only be what you are created to be.

And having accepted that as the Truth, then inquire into your own Christ
Mind on how you will live this day. For the mind that is awakened sees
no distinction anymore between being here and not being here. It sees no
distinction between Heaven and Earth. It sees no distinction between
eternity and time. It sees no distinction between the non-material and
material, or physicality. It sees no distinction between the
extraordinary and the ordinary. But rather, Reality is returned to the
mind, and it *suffuses* what the mind experiences.

And the literal world that you thought you used to know--buildings,
cars, governments, and all the rest--simply becomes a temporary
harmless illusion that seems to have “hoodwinked” (that is a very good
term--hoodwinked) your brothers and sisters, who are a part of you.

And because the world is now seen in its transparency, it is no longer
fearful to you. And you are *free* to walk and abide in it as long as the
body lasts--quietly, joyfully, going about your most *extraordinary
ordinary tasks*, except that they have become translated into the means
whereby you demonstrate the Truth of Love to the world.

Reactivity, suffering, doubt, depression--in other words, dis-ease —
can only be the reflection of a *decision* to use the power of the mind to
desire, and therefore to perceive and experience, what is *unlike* the
Truth of the Kingdom.

Freedom, peace, unlimitedness, and above all, fearlessness must
necessarily be the result of the decision to use the power of the mind
to remember, to realize, to abide in, and to extend the Truth that is
true always. And then the passing phenomenon, called life, is simply
seen as a delightful dance. It has no purpose in and of itself. Once,
you gave it a purpose unlike God’s. But as Christ, the purpose that you
see in the world is *shared* by your Creator *with* you, and your will has
become the same as God’s: merely to abide and to be of service in the
process whereby those that have been “hoodwinked” can remember the Truth
and become free. And it no longer matters how that occurs, that is, what
*form* your teaching occurs in. It’s all the same. And you see no
difference between your form and someone else’s, for you will recognize
the teachers of God.

And where you are in any moment becomes a *divine gift*, literally dropped
in your lap as an opportunity to enjoy the *remembrance* that you are One
with God--that everything you’re seeing is a passing illusion, in the
sense that it used to have a purpose that seemed concrete and that
purpose has dissolved and gone:

> Where did the world go? I used to think it was a fearful place. I used
> to think that I had to get ahead. I used to think that there were those
> who could victimize me. Now I just see harmlessness. I see nothing out
> there that can add anything to me. I am simply at rest and at peace,
> delighting at play in my Father’s Kingdom. And where I am, Christ
> abides.

So the distance from where you may yet perceive yourself to be and where
you may perceive us to be is only the distance of a decision. That
decision waits upon your welcome. And *no one* can take from you the *power*
to decide to *own* your identity as God’s Child.

Look well, then, in this moment. Stop and look within the mind. Then
observe the simple day that you’ve been living thus far. And ask
yourself what have you *desired* in this day? And allow memory to bring to
you choices that you’ve made. Look upon those choices for whatever
feelings, perceptions, thoughts you may have had. Look upon them with
perfect innocence. Simply observe:

> Oh, in that moment I was certainly not desiring peace. In that moment I
> certainly wasn’t desiring perfect remembrance. Hmm...how
> interesting.

And if you can find a moment in this day that you have lived so far —
even if, by the way, you’re listening to this tape five minutes after
you get up out of bed--if you look well into those five minutes, you
just might discover that there has been at least a moment in which you
were not deliberately choosing to desire remembrance of union with God.
Now, does that mean that you’re walking around saying,

> I desire union with God. I desire union with God...?

No. Those are just words. The *desire* is a *feeling*. It pervades the
heart. You might say you feel it in the body, which is really just the
depth of the mind, anyway.

Look well and see if there was a moment in which you were using the
power of the mind to decide against the Kingdom. When you find that
moment, just look at it, observe it with innocence, and simply say,

> I could have chosen otherwise.

And that is the simplicity and the power that the Kingdom is!

The world remains *uncaused* by *anything* outside of your own mind. Yet
within it, you are given *complete dominion*. This means that within the
One Mind of Christ, if you would perceive it for a moment as an ocean,
individuation occurs; individual waves arise, made of the same substance
— perfect freedom, perfect knowledge of, and union with, God. And in
that freedom, the power to decide or to desire is present. And *desire*
begets worlds without end. That is what your entire planet once came
from. That is what your entire solar system came from. Your entire
universe was born of desire.

The key, then, to the transformation of your lived experience, while the
body lasts, is to *assume complete responsibility* for how you are
choosing to use the mind. Remember you can only think a thought; you can
only have an idea. That idea cannot enter your domain, over which you
have complete dominion, unless *you* have sent it an invitation. That is
simply the way it is. And it is a mirror of what God is--infinite and
perfect freedom. That which I refer to as God simply never deviates from
*desiring only* the extension of Love, the birthing of that which is like
unto Himself--you. And your will is joined with your Creator’s when you
decide to birth only that which reflects Love--the *good*, the *holy*, and
the *beautiful*.

The mind, as you’ve come to know it, will deceive you into thinking
that,

> Well, if I live that way 95 per cent of the time, then, what the heck, 5
> per cent of the time I can do something else.

And that’s absolutely true. And yet, the more you come to truly desire
only that which reflects the Truth of who you are, you will be able to
tolerate less and less variance within yourself.

This is why, when any mind truly begins to awaken, it becomes more and
more *painful* to continue certain thoughts or behaviors that do not
reflect the deep desire of the heart. This is why the gap becomes less
and less--the gap of unconsciousness, the gap in which the mind tries
to defend its choices and perceptions--until *finally*, it rests in
*complete vulnerability*. It lives in *complete innocence* and no longer —
and please listen carefully--*it no longer fears change within its
system of thought*. It no longer fears being challenged by another mind,
because it thirsts *only* for the creation of a thought system that can
birth forth the *good*, the *holy*, and the *beautiful*.

It no longer explains. It no longer defends. It no longer seeks to
convince. It merely *abides* and gives itself over to the stream of Love
that would flow through it. And every idea presented by another mind
becomes something to live with, something to digest, to see if there is
a jewel within it that can add to the beauty of its own expression of
the good, the holy, and the beautiful. Everything becomes, what is
called, your “grist for the mill.”

And there is no longer a need to be in defense. The body does not
tighten. The breath does not grow short. There is only *vulnerability*.
There is no longer a need to hide. There is no longer the need to be
concerned with the perceptions of others, since a perception cannot harm
you. There is only *such love of self* that nothing less than God will do!

And so, again in this hour, we speak on the theme of *desire*.

And we seek to bring you to the point of realizing that *desire* is the
great *power* of creativity. It is that which *births* your very experience.
Desire is perfectly free. That desire, that power to desire, is within
you and you will never be without it. It is *impossible* to be
desire-less, since you can only find yourself to be where you have
*desired* to be. Even if you are in deep and perfect silent meditation,
you are there because of desire.

Therefore, beloved friends, please decide this day to take
responsibility for what you desire. Recognize that *what* you desire will
be what you *experience*. Recognize that what you *desire* literally creates
the pathway whereby you will experience either Heaven or hell, peace or
turbulence, Love or fear. And in each moment of desire, right where you
are, you have just birthed an entire world. For out of that desire, you
will create your perceptions of everything from yourself to the farthest
of stars, all in a split second, a moment of timelessness.

Part of the journey, then, of *The Way of Transformation* is learning to
transform your lived experience, so that you enjoy it more and more; are
attached to it less and less; and fear it not at all. There are many in
your world who would yet perceive spirituality as a way to *get out of*
the place in which they find themselves, not understanding that they can
be nowhere save than in their own mind. And as long as there is a desire
to get out of where they are, they will remain stuck within it, because
only Love can heal.

Therefore, the way of healing, which is *The Way of Transformation*,
requires that you turn back to look at your creations, to look back into
your own mind and to bring Love to whatever is arising, out of the
*desire* to be the presence of Christ.

Now, does this mean that as long as the body lasts and you find yourself
in the world of space-time and movement and all the rest--does this
mean that you won’t take the body from one location to another? Of
course not! Does it mean that third-dimensional relationships won’t come
and go? Of course not! It does mean you become completely free of the
old perception that an attraction to a certain relationship is going to
add something *to* you, or the avoidance of a certain relationship is
going to keep you safe. Rather, you begin to be free to let the dance of
the third-dimensional illusion simply have its day. But it no longer
holds power over you.

The highest state of awareness, then, in which perception has been
totally cleansed and purified, is one of *paradox* as soon as you seek to
talk about it. For you will look upon yourself and see yourself as a
body-mind, with a certain name, living in a certain place on a certain
planet, doing a certain thing. And in the *very same moment*, in the very
same field of your mind, you will *know* that you are not that body, that
you are not that name, that you are not that history...that you are
something more, you are something grand, you are something divine, you
are something mysterious, you are something beyond comprehension by any
mind, at least in the realm of thought.

And you will literally *know* and *feel* within the core of your being the
Truth of *both* of those. And there will no longer be opposition between
them. You will no longer look at the personality and see a great schism
between it and the nature of Christ Mind, for the two will have become
merged as one. You will look at the most ordinary events that you
experience with your body and see no differentiation whatsoever between
that and the Kingdom of Heaven. It simply is arising, and is literally
held in, pervaded by, and suffused by, the *Reality* that is true always.

You will know that you are totally free when you no longer feel any
*obstruction* to whatever is arising in the field of your experience. Why?
Because you’ll simply see it as another opportunity to say:

> Holy Spirit, what would you have me say? What would you have me do? What
> would it be like in this moment for me to simply realize that only Love
> is Real?

And then, you will listen to that Voice. You’ll feel it deep in your
heart. And you will simply act on that Voice and none other. You won’t
listen to what other minds think you *ought* to do. You will simply listen
to that one Voice. And it won’t speak to you from the ego, for *there
will be no judgment*. And you will simply come and go as one unknown by
the world, and yet one who looks to be very ordinary, one who looks to
be the same as everyone else. The difference is that though the body
still seems to walk upon the Earth, you are literally *embracing* the
Earth. And in you, you will *know* that fear is gone.

Desire, then--the theme of this hour. And we would wish to extend to
you some simple exercises that you can put into practice. We mentioned
one of them already. A second is this: Take ten minutes out of each
hour. Set your alarm on your little watches. And for ten minutes
actually observe how you are moving the body:

> Oh, I just got off of the couch and I’m proceeding to the kitchen. Why?
> Oh, I’m having the desire for ice cream. It has arisen as a thought in
> the mind and I have given it the power to motivate the movement of the
> body to take the action necessary to now put my hand on the handle of
> the refrigerator. (And by the way, I must say that I would have liked to
> have had one of those then). I am now opening the freezer and I’m taking
> out the cold little carton made out of the body of some tree at some
> point. And in it is a substance that some other mind created out of
> desire. And now I’m picking up a utensil, called a spoon, born of
> another mind that had a desire to make life easier. And I am dipping it
> into the ice cream, and now I am putting it into the body, which itself
> is the result of a desire. <span class="tr_normal">And I am creating my experience!</span>

And no other cause is there but this: the arising, the inception of a
thought, a feeling, a desire which has birthed the entire movement of a
world, called the body, to create an experience of eating ice cream. And
you can do that for ten minutes, just by observing what you actually are
doing.

Now, what does that mean? It doesn’t mean,

> Well, I’m going to work in order to pay the bills.

No you’re not.

You’re going to work because you have held the desire to create
something that seems to give you a semblance of safety, predictability
and survival. “Job” or “career” is that which is birthed out of desire
because of your perception of what you *think* you need. So you’re not
going to the job in order to do something. You’re simply putting the
body in the car and you are driving on your freeway.

Begin to learn how to observe without embellishment, without
interpretation or explanation, exactly what you’re doing--for ten
minutes. Then if you want to go back to being unconscious, by all means
do so.

But in this way you will begin to discern something that is also going
on the whole time, like an underground current or river. For because you
*are* Reality, there is *always* the desire to extend the good, the holy,
and the beautiful. And by observing what you’re actually doing, you’ll
discover that you’re actually *succeeding* at that far more often than you
give yourself credit for. You’ll begin to see in some of your ordinary
smiles, in the decision to take a card and send it to a friend, in the
decision to refrain from a hurtful word--you will begin to discover
that that, too, was birthed from *desire* within your holy mind.

And you will begin to taste that there is a *depth* to you that is already
beyond fear, already beyond illusion, already resting in compassion and
Love and wisdom and Truth. You’ll begin to discover that you are already
having many successes upon which you can build, many successes that you
can acknowledge within yourself as a way of getting the taste, the feel,
that,

> Surely, Christ does dwell in this mind.

I once suggested to you that you remember only your loving thoughts. But
the trick to that is that you must *first* become *aware* of them. So many
become trapped in the depression and anxiety and insanity of the mind
because they put all of their energy into perceiving what is *amiss* and
no energy into perceiving their *success as Christ*.

So, in each ten minutes, learn to develop the ability to observe what
you’re *really* doing. And when you stop at your coffee shop on your way
to your job, and you go in and you give some money to the person who
gives you your cup of coffee, and you look them in the eye and you smile
and say, “Thank you,” you have just succeeded. You have communicated
Truth. You have remembered that the one in front of you is worthy of
your respect and Love. And *that* is a *success*!

Each time you can interrupt the momentum of the mind for perceiving
nothing but problems, you’ll begin to discover that the *underground
river* of the Mind of Christ is yet within you still. And as you feel
your successes more and more deeply, that in turn builds your desire to
live in that stream. And moment by moment, day by day, you will
cultivate the power necessary to be identified with only *that* Mind.

And for a while, it will seem that there are two thought systems--the
old one that you used to be identified with and the one that seems to be
being birthed within you--you’re really just remembering it. But *you*
are choosing to bring the *discipline* necessary, the *vigilance* necessary,
to retrain the mind to be identified--*not* with the realm of illusion
but with the stream of Reality that is flowing through you, unimpeded,
unobstructed, throughout all eternity, without end. Hmm...

*That* is the one gift time provides you. That’s all there is. You can’t
use time to store up wealth in some bank account for the future, since
the future does not exist, and you have no control over what will happen
to your golden coins in your world. Time has only one purpose--the
purpose the Comforter has given unto it. And that purpose is the
Atonement of the Son of God.

Now, all of that sounds very lofty, and the mind goes,

> Well, yes, of course. I understand that perfectly well, thank you. Good
> day!

And then, that very mind goes right back to its same old patterns.
Having heard, it has not heard. Having tasted, it has not swallowed.

Until you decide to seize time, recognizing its great gift to you--not
as a punishment, not as a duty, but as an *opportunity* to become *wholly
free*, and to smile within your heart because you know that you are One
with God...to seize the opportunity to discipline the mind, so that
it comes to be identified with the stream of Christ Mind, whispering
like a quiet voice underneath the roar and din of the ego’s conflicted
world, filled with fear and doubt and judgment and the need to be right,
the need to make others wrong, the need to believe that there’s some
power source outside of itself...when you awaken and realize that
the Truth is true always, you will not ever complain about a moment of
experience in which you have the power to desire differently.

For as you desire, you will perceive. And as you perceive, you will
experience. And the whole game is simply this: *you’re totally free*.
Right here, and right now. You can’t do anything to *become* free. You can
only *remember* your freedom by how you choose to use the mind in any
moment.

Time is an illusion. And the things that pass by, the phenomena of space
and time, are just shadows that you have interpreted in a certain way.
There is no gain; there is no loss. There is nothing to fear. The world
can add nothing to you nor take anything away. You’re merely here in
this temporary classroom with an opportunity to do what any master in
any dimension can do, for you hold the same power as I do--you hold the
power to *teach only Love*. And what you teach, you must *necessarily* and
*immediately* learn.

Therefore, learn well to observe the mind:

> What am I really desiring?

Not,

> What do I wish I were desiring? What am I _really_ desiring?

...remembering that everything is a neutral event. It’s just a
learning experience, that’s all.

Separation does not exist. The Truth is true always. Death is unreal.
You are Pure Spirit. Time is just a context. The world is harmless. You
cannot be a victim. You are free. The Atonement is over. The ascension
is completed. Once you get the message, hang up the telephone and get on
with it by choosing to bring that Reality into the dance of shadow
called “this world.” For what good does it do to *pray* for freedom in the
*future*? It is everything to *abide* in freedom *now*!

One last thing about desire. The egoic mind, which is made up of
attraction/aversion, judgment, either acceptance or aversion, or hatred
even,

> This is right, that is wrong; this is good, that is bad ...

Also be willing to embrace and accept the *results* of what you’ve been
desiring. When you dip your spoon into your ice cream, enjoy it, *embrace
it* as the effects of your desire.

And when you buy an automobile that breaks down, train yourself to
embrace it and enjoy it, just like the ice cream. Why? For a very simple
reason. If the egoic mind judges things as right or wrong, if you judge
the ice cream as “good,” but the breaking down of the car as “bad,” *what
mind* holds power over you? Are you free in that moment?

> My car just broke down. Oh, but there’s such a beautiful sunset! I think
> I might as well sit here and let the stars come out. After all, I really
> wasn’t going anywhere anyway.

*Mind is everything.* And if you *truly desire* more than *believing* in
Christ, you must assume the responsibility for *transforming the mind* by
using your very ordinary moments in which to see differently. And as you
reshape how you use the mind, in every moment, you will come to taste
profound freedom--a freedom that will carry you instantly far beyond
the things of space and time. And they will seem to be arising within
you and passing away within you: universes, arising and passing away,
within the Holy Mind of Christ.

That is the great gift given unto you, then. And as we continue in this
*Way of Transformation*, as you can see we’ve come around again to an old
topic, called desire. What are you *worthy* of desiring the most? You
will, indeed, discover and create your pathway to your own consummate
awakening.

And, just to add one final thing, there can be no end to the Mind of
God. You will abide forever within it, like one who abides in an
infinite forest. Why not be *at play* in the Kingdom?

Enjoy your exercises! Some of you will actually do them. And *those* are
the ones who will taste a deepening remembrance of the Truth that is
true always.

And so, be you, therefore, at peace. And again, we extend our
thankfulness to you for having set aside the roar and din of the world
to abide with us in this hour. For you see, communication is the great
joy of the aspects of the Sonship who choose to come together to delight
in remembering the Truth. Therefore, it is our delight to create
communication devices to join with you. And you have a saying in your
world, that “it takes two to tango.” So, therefore, thank you for
joining with us in this celebratory dance that remembers the Truth!

Go, then, in peace.

Amen.

