---
title: "Lesson Nine"
toc:
- Question One
- Question Two
- Question Three
- Question Four
---

Now, we begin.

It is not possible for you to be without Love.

It is not possible for you to be alone.

It is not possible for you to taste death.

It is not possible for you to taste genuine loss.

It is not possible for you to suffer the dream of separation.

It is not possible for you to be apart from your Creator.

It is not possible for you to fail.

It is not possible for you to harm anyone or anything.

It is not possible for you to be guilty of sin.

Beloved friends, as we abide together in this hour, please consider each
of the statements that has just been made to you. We suggest to you that
you pause the tape and write down each of them individually at the head
of a piece of paper. Then once this session is ended, begin a process in
which for one week you will abide with each of the statements just made.
And what do we mean by that? We mean that as often as you choose,
through desire, to set aside time to do so, merely abide with the
statement. And then watch what comes up in the mind, and write it down.

What you will discover are many pictures, many ideas, even certain
feelings that seem to indicate to you that the statement must not
*entirely* be true. This is a way, then, for you to deepen your ability to
observe what is actually occurring within the field of your own mind. It
is a way to enter into a *deliberate purification*.

Denial can never purify the mind. For you cannot transcend what you
refuse to embrace. For in embracing does Love return to the place where
shadow once dwelt. And Love alone heals all things. The innocent need
not fear. Therefore, because you are innocent, as you sit with this
process, you are *completely free* to be *thoroughly honest* about what
comes up into the mind as you sit with each statement.

Just jot it down. And after a two or three minute period, pause, look at
what you’ve come up with, or what’s come up within you, and then
juxtapose those two views. Take the statement that you’re working with
and simply repeat it in the mind. And then look at the statement, the
picture, the description, the memory that *seems* to indicate that your
experience is *other* than that statement.

And as you juxtapose it in this way, look at what has come up within
your mind--be *honest* about it--and then say...for instance, if it
is an event that occurred last week, or last year, or ten years ago, or
five hundred years ago (it doesn’t really matter) as you look at it,
simply ask:

> Has this belief or this perception of myself, that seems to be in
> opposition to the statement on the top of the page, has it really
> changed anything about me? Has it taken my existence from me?

And simply see what the answer is. Then lift your eyes from the page and
look around. And say within the mind,

> I am free in this moment to choose to see things differently.

Then take just a moment or two and abide--simply looking around you.
Then go back to the statement at the top of the page and say it again
out loud, at least three times. And then merely say within the mind,
quietly,

> This is the Truth about me. And I want only the Truth.

And then, put it away, be about your business. At some other point,
bring it out. And do that kind of process for one week for each of the
statements given you. And rest assured, *purification* will be occurring
in the depth of the mind. Each of you will experience it in your own
way. But you will experience it. Remember always, then, that the only
thing that can be transformed is the mind. And it is by the power of the
mind itself that purification occurs.

<!-- Track t2 -->

Just as desire is essential to realization, so too is *willingness*, or
*allowance*. And you have heard us say unto you many times that you are
required only to offer a little willingness, just what you call in your
world--what is this word--a “smidgen.” Measure out a smidgen of
willingness, which is the same as allowance, and sprinkle it upon your
experiences. Sprinkle it across the world. Sprinkle it upon your own
being.

Become willing to be one who cultivates the ability to *allow all things*.
For the mind that is free can do this. The mind that is imprisoned
cannot. For the mind that is imprisoned is so because it insists that
what it perceives should become different *in itself*, but that the
perceiver need not change. And that is the very essence of imprisonment.

One who cultivates that ability to *allow*, then, is cultivating, in
Truth, the very act of forgiveness. It is releasing the world from its
*insistence* that its perceptions be held as right. It is releasing from
*itself* the need to *hold on* to its perceptions. Therefore, allow all
things. Trust all the things. And thereby, embrace and transcend all
things.

*Allowance* follows on the heels of desire. For when you desire the
Kingdom above all things, you have no choice but to discover that you
must allow the world to be as the world is. For you have not known how
the world is--you have only known your perceptions of it. But the
Comforter will heal those perceptions. And that requires your little
willingness to let your perceptions be changed. And as they are changed,
the world magically becomes a different place. It does become
transparent and harmless. It becomes virtually *valueless*, except for the
value that the Comforter would give it, while it lasts.

Allowance, beloved friends, is a process of letting go, is a process of
trusting. It is a process of saying,

> You know, I wonder what it would be like to just let things be as they
> are--to notice them and let them pass by?

Allowance is the *doorway* through which Christ passes into the complete
remembrance of Christ. Allowance brings a deepening sense of freedom--freedom
from all circumstance. For it is your circumstances that you
have *believed* have the power to imprison you. But as you choose to
relinquish your perception of the world, or any circumstance, you
discover that you are already abiding in freedom. The *power*, and that is
what freedom is, it is a *power* to create differently. And to create is
the effect of what you will choose to see.

Allowance, then, can be thought of as a resistance being melted from the
nervous system, if you will, which is just an aspect of the mind,
anyway. Allowance is like the opening of the palms of the hands. Instead
of holding on so tightly, you simply let go.

What do you let go of? The habit of the need to be right. The habit of
the need to perceive that the world is a fearful place. The habit of
perceiving that you are in lack. The habit of perceiving that Christ
must be far from you. Anything that is unlike the Kingdom of Heaven is a
habit well worth releasing by *allowing* it to be dissolved from your
mind.

<!-- Track t3 -->

The essence, then, of this hour’s communication with you is about the
cultivation of allowance. It begins already, and will deepen a great
deal, if you’ll merely put the exercise that we began with into
practice. The willingness to *relinquish the lid* you have placed upon
your own mind, so that you become able, in innocence, to simply observe
how it really is--what’s really going on down in the basement, without
judgment, without fear, without justification, without explanation. It
is simply there.

In allowance, you cultivate the very quality of forgiveness. And without
forgiveness, it is *impossible* to awaken into the realization of the
Truth that is true always. And why? Because judgment is the opposite of
the Kingdom. And where forgiveness is withheld, you are literally making
a choice to be outside the Kingdom. You have used the power of the mind
to make a decision, out of a desire to hold onto a perception, and
thereby, you have generated direct experience. And *you* are the one who
has kicked yourself out of the garden.

Remember, then, that always, forgiveness is *essential*. It is *necessary*
for the Atonement. Forgiveness is another word for allowance. We speak
here not of a blind passivity, but of a relinquishment within one’s own
mind, and that is all. It is a *willingness* to see the complete
neutrality of all events. It is a *willingness* to let the Comforter
remind you that separation does not exist, that you cannot possibly make
yourself guilty of sin and all the rest.

Forgiveness is a *relinquishment* of what you have decided is true about
the world. It is, then, very much a self-centered practice. Of yourself,
you cannot forgive your brother or sister for anything, because, in
reality, they’ve done nothing. Forgiveness is forgiveness of one’s self
for insisting on replacing Reality with your own version of it.

Allowance, beloved friends, is like the petals of a flower, opening to
embrace the new dawn of a spring day. Allowance is like the melting of
the ice that allows the river to flow. Allowance is like the removing of
a cap from a bottle of sweet fragrance and enjoying it as deeply as you
can. **Allowance is the dissolution of fear.** Allowance is transformation.

And when you have come to allow all things, to trust all things, you
will have embraced all things. And only that one who is *larger* than the
thing which is embraced can do the embracing. Therefore, whenever you
feel imprisoned, it is because you have made yourself *smaller* than the
world you perceive.

And when you feel free, it is because you’ve remembered that you are the
one from which all things have arisen. *You are* the Son of God. You are
the vast sky in which all clouds and storms arise and pass away, while
the sky remains unscathed--eternally changeless. *That* is freedom! And
the cultivation of freedom is a free-will choice. It is the result of
the *desire* for the Kingdom.

<!-- Track t4 -->

As you come *truly* to forgive yourself for every perception you have ever
held about anyone or anything, you will come to discover that it means
relinquishing perceptions of yourself, as well. For you cannot awaken
fully unless you include *yourself* in the circle of your forgiveness. And
ultimately, of course, you come to see that the very practice of
allowance is *really* the act of *allowing yourself to be truly the Self
that you are*. You will no longer resist the process of purification, by
whatever means the Comforter uses for you. It simply doesn’t matter any
more:

> Why resist it? All I want is God!

And if it is dissolved in the mind in a split second, and you don’t even
notice it--fine. And if it requires great tears and great experiences
in the world--fine. What’s the difference? They’re really the same. It
is because you have relinquished--through allowing--you’ve
relinquished ownership of your own pathway home. And you have decided to
let the Comforter *take* you home. Because you desire the Kingdom above
all else, it no longer matters how that process is experienced. You no
longer complain that it seems to be taking too long. You simply enjoin
yourself in the process itself. You let the Comforter take you by the
hand and retrace the steps you once made in error. And each step
requires allowance, which is forgiveness born of desire that has been
purified of desire for that which imprisons. And it is replaced with the
desire for that which sets all things free.

Once your desire begins and becomes the Kingdom, the end of the journey
is perfectly certain. School is out. That which the ego is cannot last.
For the very universe, Creation, the world around you, will *conspire* —
which simply means to *breathe together*--all things will conspire
together under the hand of the Holy Spirit to create *precisely* what *you*
require to be set completely free of all illusion. And secretly, you
will have already agreed with the Comforter that it will be this way.

Allowance, then, is equally as important as desire, and is an aspect of
that pathway, that foundation, whereby Christ remembers Christ and
arises from the ego’s ashes to walk upon this plane, and any plane, as
the Truth that is true always.

<!-- Track t5 -->

Remember that it is only the ego that will compare and contrast. It is
only the egoic mind that thinks about another’s path and wonders if
perhaps their path is better than its own path, than your path. There is
*only* the life that you are directly experiencing. And through desire and
allowance, that very life comes to be embraced as the *very means* by
which the Comforter is dissolving illusion from your mind. And of
course, it’s all based on the humility of realizing that the ego cannot
awaken itself; that the Comforter is that agency, given by Grace, that
knows how to bring you home.

I highly recommend that you establish a relationship with the Comforter
as though it were a relationship with a good friend--indeed, the *best*
of friends--until you reach a point in which virtually every decision
is given to that Mind:

> Well, old buddy, should I turn left or right?

And you *relinquish* ownership of your life. It is only the ego that
thinks it can possess life. Spirit knows that Life possesses it. That
is, Life has birthed you; the Mind of God has given rise to you. You are
God’s. You are not the *owner* of Life. You are the *recipient* of it.

Would you then be willing, in this month’s time, to make the decision to
become a *grand master of allowance*? You can begin again with the
simplest of things:

> I allow this toothpaste to taste exactly the way it tastes, with no
> complaint. It just is as it is.

If it is the changing of your seasons, would you be willing not to
lament the end of your summer and the coming of your fall, but would you
be willing to experience that change? For rest assured, and please
listen well, in the realm of the world, which is the realm of
perception, the *only* thing that exists is *constant change*. Underneath it
there is a changeless Reality, that which pervades the changeable. But
where there is resistance to change, rest assured, there is a mind
living in delusion.

Remember that we have said unto you before that the Awakened Mind no
longer feels any resistance to the things of time. It no longer tries to
get rid of time. It no longer tries to make things stay the same. The
Awakened Mind can embrace all things, trust all things, and thereby,
transcends all things *instantly*, even in the midst of change.

In your realm--be perfectly honest with yourself--is there ever a
moment in which change is not occurring? Can the body be the field of
perfect silence? Hardly. Even if you make your heart stop beating for
three seconds, there is still blood gently flowing through the veins.
There are still thoughts arising, sounds coming in through the ears. The
body is not that which can be changeless. The *awareness* of the body, the
field in which the body arises, is changeless already.

Can you come, then, to be the *field of awareness* that can embrace all
things which arise, change, and pass away, yet not feel any *obstruction*
in embracing and dancing with those things? For the mind that is free
from the illusions of death is that very mind that learns to *dance* with
death, to enter into any moment or relationship, knowing that because
the body is engaged, it must come to an end. In fact, it’s already on
its way to death.

The mind that becomes the one who is no longer in fear, no longer in
resistance, is the mind that has forgiven all things, including itself.
The mind, then, that can embrace all phenomena that arise and pass away
with passion, with joy, with aliveness, with innocence, with simplicity
— *that* mind cannot taste death. It literally transmutes death, even as
death seems to be passing by.

The highest state of being, then, is always a paradox when you try to
think about it. Through your *desire* you have come ever closer and ever
deeper into the Kingdom. And through your cultivation of *allowance*, the
Grace-filled willingness to know that that which arises is already
passing away--it is like water flowing through a fork, and you might as
well not lament it. The mind that laments it is the mind imprisoned in
delusion. The mind that *allows* all things is the mind that is already
freely *beyond* all things.

<!-- Track t6 -->

In this month, then, imagine that there has been given unto you a
window, as though your Creator had plucked you out of Himself and said,

> I’m going to drop you into the field of time because there’s something I
> want you to learn. You now have thirty days in which to learn it.

Imagine that if you didn’t learn it, your existence would be snuffed
out, what they call erasing your name from the Book of Life. Now of
course, that will never happen. This is just a way of getting leverage
on yourself.

Imagine that for the next thirty days all that mattered was the
*cultivation of the grace of allowing*. How to do that? By coming down,
once again, to the most concrete, most mundane, most ordinary
experiences of any given day. When you turn your water on in your shower
in the morning, to actually take the time to be present, and to feel its
coolness change to heat and to recognize that you have just observed the
constant dance of change in your world. And to say simply,

> I allow this change to occur.

Now, yes, it makes you sound that you’re some great being, when in fact
it’s going to happen anyway. But have fun with it!

And if you burn your toast, take a deep breath. And before the egoic
mind begins to complain and whine that its toast isn’t the way it wants
it, stop and look at it. Actually experience the burnt toast and say,

> I <span class="tr_normal">allow</span> this toast to be burnt. And now, I’m free to choose to eat it as
> it is, or to begin anew.

If you get into your automobile, and you pull out of your garage, and
the raindrops are hitting the windshield, simply give yourself
permission to bring your mind back from the future into the present and
say,

> I allow the falling of the rain.

That simple.

So, you see, the power of transformation of consciousness...which,
by the way, is the only thing that can be transformed. Learning is a
consciousness thing. It’s the only thing that *can* be changed. It’s the
only place learning can occur. And all learning is designed to *translate
perception*, so that it becomes more and more and more and more like
Reality, itself. Fear dissolves from the mind. And then the Father can
take the final step for you.

Learning *is* necessary in the field of perception. And *you* have placed
*yourself* within that field. So, why not get on with it, and *let*
perception be healed? It is healed by bringing the *power of observation*
to what is right in front of you--not in front of the body, but right
in the field of awareness, itself. And that is why you should be dancing
in your shoes at all times:

> My goodness, I don’t have to go anywhere. It’s right here in front of
> me. This ordinary moment provides the doorway to the transformation of
> consciousness itself. All I have to do is bring a little willingness to
> it. And guess what? I have all power under Heaven and Earth to do just
> that! Nobody can take it from me! Nobody can change the freedom in which
> I live! I am the one who can bring that little willingness to this
> moment and let the raindrops hit the window.

If you will look around yourself, you will discover, in any given day,
plenty of things to keep you occupied, plenty of reasons why boredom is
nothing more than a decision. For right in front of you is the richness
of a pathway, translated by the Comforter, from a dream of separation to
the royal highway to the Kingdom. And all power under Heaven and Earth
lies within you--in *this* moment, and *this* moment, and *this* moment--to
choose again. But it’s time to take such statements out of the realm of
abstract intellection into very concrete, if you will, *lived moments*:

> Where can I choose again? Right now! I can accept and allow these
> raindrops to hit the window. I can be present with them. I can hear
> them. I can watch them as they trickle down, instead of being annoyed,
> instead of letting the mind go off into its future adventures. I can
> cultivate the art of being present now as the very presence of a mind
> that is free.

Therefore, consider, in your days, in each of your next thirty days,

> What could I utilize in this day to practice this exercise?

Now, of course, that’s a bit of an odd question to ask, since you can’t
be *without* things to put that practice into, practice with. It’s
impossible. Those that say they are bored are really saying,

> I am resisting the Kingdom.

Pure and simple.

<!-- Track t7 -->

Well do we perceive, once again, that so many in your world seek to find
a spirituality that will free them of the world of their experience,
never even realizing that *that very attitude* is the thing that chains
them, imprisons them in their hell. Spirituality is merely a process of
seeing things differently. And that is an *active decision*--born of
desire, coupled with the little willingness called *allowance*--the
decision to recognize that each moment is like a jewel presented on a
golden plate to *you*, God’s Child. You are the one who has the freedom
always and literally creates, or makes, your experience.

The final lesson that I had in time, concerning allowance, was the
*crucifixion*. Now, I know that there are many of you that don’t want to
follow in my footsteps. But rest assured, beloved friends, if you would
look well upon your experience, you’ve already tasted much more profound
crucifixions *many, many* times. In fact, for some of you, my crucifixion
was a *cake walk*, by comparison. You are free to crucify yourself no
longer, by choosing to *transform* your very experience, by bringing the
power of your mind to bear upon it.

Desire. Allowance.

So what, then, stands between you and the goal that you would seek? The
*decision* to try to be *insane*. The *decision* to try to *resist God*. Now,
you know that you can resist another body, since another body occupies
another piece of space. In other words, it’s not where you are, so you
can resist it. But I say unto you, *God is already wholly present right
where you are*. *How on earth can you resist what is already occupying the
space in which you find yourself?* You might as well try to shake off
your own hand, or shake and jiggle the skin off the body. Good luck!

All suffering is the resistance of Reality. All awakening and healing is
the letting go of resistance. Forgiveness, allowance:

> God is already here. And I am forever God’s. I surrender.

Surrender is the fruit of allowance. Surrender is the fruit of
forgiveness. *Surrender is the same as the Atonement.*

But for now, simply focus on *allowance*, to make sure that you haven’t
left some dark corner in the mind filled with your need to perceive
things in a certain way, your need to believe that the world should be
other than the way it is, your forgetfulness that each event that
transpires in your experience can be seen as Heaven or hell. As you
choose to see only *Heaven*, you will discover the *power* that has already
set you free.

<!-- Track t8 -->

The message of this hour is a short one, but it is quite long on value,
if you will put it into practice. And after all, what else could you
possibly want to use time for? You’ve tried everything else and found it
lacking. You haven’t been able to fill it up with enough lovers, enough
money, enough cars, enough restaurants. Hmm...So you might as well
fill it up with the *transformation of consciousness*, so that perception
begins to be more and more and more and more aligned with the real
world. Why not? And if somebody asks you what you do with your time,
say,

> I grow Christ. What do you do?

So practice well! Begin with the statements given to you when we began.
They’re very, very important for you as a way of *triggering* the
opportunity to observe what might be *unlike* the Truth still lingering in
the mind. Some would say in the emotional field, which is really just
the space of “glue” in which you attach perceptions, like pinning the
tail to the donkey:

> Stick that one on the wall and keep it forever!

Hmm! Let those things bubble up that they might be purified from your
Holy Mind.

And above all, beloved friends, remember: *there are no mistakes*! You are
free to trust the momentum that seems to be shaping your life. For you
are the one who has complied with it by inviting the Holy Spirit to take
you home. You are the one that has prayed for acceleration. Therefore,
also be the one who accepts the Grace being offered unto you. Remember
that resistance is the ego; embracing is of Christ. And the one that
allows all things has already transcended all things.

Therefore, indeed, be at peace in this short hour. And let this hour
become a month-long journey of exploration.

Be you, therefore, at peace this day.

Amen.

---

## Question One

[*Question One*](/t/wom/wot/l09/q1/): How do you know if you are truly being guided?
{: .omit}

---

## Question Two

[*Question Two*](/t/wom/wot/l09/q2/): Jeshua, you have mentioned that
all events are neutral — several times. Could you please take that and
go deeper with that and explain it for us?
{: .omit}

---

## Question Three

[*Question Three*](/t/wom/wot/l09/q3/): Please explain more about the
paradox of living as one Christ Consciousness and yet also living in an
individuated body and ego.
{: .omit}

---

## Question Four

[*Question Four*](/t/wom/wot/l09/q4/): Can you talk about what the
perception of the New Age movement is regarding ‘up and out,’ riding the
ascending current and ignoring what we call the ‘shadow side,’ and how
to balance the...not to be in denial of the shadow? Can you just discuss
that--riding the ascending and descending currents (in less than ten
minutes)?
{: .omit}

