---
title: "Lesson Ten"
---

Now, we begin.

And indeed, once again, greetings unto you, beloved and holy friends. As
always, we come forth in this hour with but one purpose: to join with
the Mind of the Holy Son of God. For surely, this *is* what you are.

Beloved friends, we come forth to join with the Holy Son of God, to join
with that Mind that was there in the beginning, before the mountains and
seas arose, before the universe arose, before even the *thought* of space
and time arose.

We come forth, then, to join with that Mind of the Holy Son of God that
has remained in *perfect union* as the Sonship, in *perfect union* with its
Creator, in *perfect union* with Reality, and with Love. And though we
have said it unto you many times, we ask you to truly take pause and to
consider this one statement: We come forth to join with you, *not* from a
place above you or beyond you, but a place in which *you* already dwell,
eternally.

No perception, no appearance can change the Truth that is true always.
Even then, in this moment, as you hear these words, can you *feel* and
*accept* the Truth of them? The only reason you hear them, the only reason
you can sense the Truth that comes through them, is because you *are* that
Truth, you *know* that Truth. There is, then, a place within you--unbounded,
eternal, invisible, incomprehensible to the world mind, incomprehensible to the
senses of the body, but perfectly and even simply comprehensible to the
*silence* in which the soul dwells, comprehensible in a state of Perfect
Knowledge.

All teaching, regardless of the form (and there are many forms of the
universal curriculum), has but one specific goal: to nudge the mind of
the dreamer beyond his or her dream, to return that mind to a state of
Perfect Knowledge. Some would call it enlightenment, that which suddenly
is flooded with Light. And Light is Truth; and Truth is Knowledge; and
Knowledge is Love.

Therefore, when we come forth in this manner to join with you, the only
purpose that we have is to en*light*en you, to turn your awareness, to
turn your attention to what you already know. And the only difference
between knowledge and belief, which is the same as the difference
between Love and fear (and that will give you something to think about)
is that in a state of knowledge, in a state of en*light*enment, the
resistance to the Truth vanishes--initially perhaps for just a moment,
but eventually there is no longer any resistance to the simplicity of
the Truth.

<!-- Track t2 -->

This transference, or transformation, from a state of fear to Love, or
from ignorance (the ignoring of Truth) to enlightenment (the embracing
and acknowledging of Truth) occurs for each mind within the dream in a
very *specific* way. That is, it must occur according to what is required
to release the patterns that have settled into that particular mind. In
a general way those patterns are the same for everyone, but in their
expression they take on a perfect uniqueness.

Therefore, the timing of your enlightenment, the timing of your healing,
the way in which it occurs, the contexts that are necessary for you to
be challenged by your own self--so that that which is the belief you
have been holding, born out of fear, can be brought to the attention and
then released--will be uniquely your own. This is why, in *The Way of
Transformation*, it is absolutely essential that you never compare your
journey to another’s. By all means, yes, pay attention to the journeys
of your brothers and sisters. Be open at all times--to learn, to grow,
to assimilate, to apply, to integrate, to consider, to ponder.

The ego *always* compares and contrasts. It looks upon itself; it takes
its self-picture and compares it to a picture of another mind, without
even noticing that the picture is something *it* has created. It believes
that it is seeing what is outside of itself, that the picture or the
analysis of another actually exists in that other--and it may. The
point here is that the ego compares and contrasts, and then draws a
conclusion about its own worthiness, its own progress, its own state of
illumination. All of this *must be* ego function, because, in reality, you
are as you are created to be. And wherever you are in any given moment,
enlightenment is but a decision away.

That decision entails but one thing: to release the insane valuation
that you have placed upon everything and everyone, most especially
yourself. That decision rests on the willingness to take God at God’s
word. That decision rests on your willingness to *cultivate silence*. The
theme, then, of this hour is *the cultivation of that inner silence which
is the threshold to wisdom divine*.

<!-- Track t3 -->

How, then, does the mind come to *true* silence? It is not merely, simply,
a matter of closing the mouth. It is not merely, simply, a matter of
shutting out the noise of the world. It is certainly not a matter of
ceasing to listen to others, whether they speak the words of praise or
words of criticism. Quite to the contrary. Silence can be cultivated in
a number of ways. Initially, it will look like something you do through
the body: to breathe deeply and rhythmically; to sit next to an ocean;
to sit beneath a tree and become absorbed in the wind; to merely
practice the ancient art of remaining silent, without speaking, as you
go through your daily events.

All of these begin to cultivate a relaxation within what you call the
brain and the body, the nervous system. Yet these things are merely
projections of mind, anyway. So to still the body, to calm the body, to
allow the activity in the brain hemispheres to relax and become more
harmonious--this is, in fact, an initial step in bringing the mind to
silence. But far deeper than these things is this: That genuine silence
which is, indeed, the threshold to wisdom (and wisdom is nothing more
than enlightenment) requires the cultivation of *deep self-honesty*.
Honesty is that act in which *the mind is no longer committed to hiding
from its own darkness*.

I have said many times, and in many ways, that it is necessary to enter
into the blackness of the ego in order to discover what you want no
longer. And, in Truth, for anyone who makes such a journey, that which
the ego is becomes repulsive, repugnant, hurtful to one’s self. And that
is the only thing that matters.

Therefore, understand that in *The Way of Transformation*, although we’ve
covered much territory in this brief year so far, a cornerstone of the
universal curriculum must always be the cultivation of a *deep
self-honesty*. And in self-honesty, one decides to simply *observe* the
mind, itself, to simply observe the behavior that flows from the mind
through the body, as it gestures itself out into the world. True
self-honesty requires time. And why? Because the ego is the *attempt* to
replace *honesty* and *Truth* with *dishonesty* and *falsity*.

Imagine, then, for a moment, that you are fully enlightened in this
moment. You are abiding in a state of perfect freedom and peace. You are
at One with God. Would there be anything that you would need to be
dishonest with in your own mind? What corner of the mind would you have
failed to embrace in Light? Therefore, in Truth, beloved friends,
understand well that the ego is the attempt to replace honesty with
dishonesty. It *is* dishonesty, itself. In fact, one could go so far as to
say that those that would seek for the devil need look *only* at the ego--in
which case the ego becomes *egocentric*, and your sense of identity is *all
wrapped up* in defending and protecting a false image of yourself.

Much resistance is pervading your human domain, much energy of
resistance, which is only this:

> No, I will not look honestly. I must uphold the image I need to believe
> is true about myself.

This is not Love and this is not Truth.

Beloved friends, take a moment, then, and simply cultivate deep
self-honesty by merely answering these questions:

> Have I ever had a murderous thought?
>
> Have I ever manipulated another mind in order to try to gain what I
> believed I needed?
>
> Have I ever withdrawn love for the subtle reason of causing hurt, or
> trying to cause hurt to another?
>
> Have I ever had--shall we call them--disrespectful sexual fantasies?
>
> Have I ever hated the world?
>
> Have I ever despised myself?

And last, but surely not least, for in Truth, if you would consider it,
all of those questions emanate out of this one:

> Have I ever hated God?

Now, in perfect self-honesty, the answer to each of those questions can
only be “Yes.” And the honest mind looks upon all that has arisen within
it without judgment. For there can be no honesty while there is
judgment.

<!-- Track t4 -->

Think well upon the questions that we have asked you. And then simply
take it a step further:

> Has any of that type of thing within my mind occurred recently?

Notice what happens now. Pay attention to your mind and even into your
body and breath. What occurs as you begin to get closer to the Truth? Do
you notice a little bit of restlessness, the mind becoming more active
with chatter? Decide for silence. Decide for peace. For healing occurs
to the depth and degree of which the mind is willing to embrace what
occurs within it.

Denial causes separation--self from Self, self from others, and self
from God. And therefore, the very peace that the mind seeks through
religious belief is impossible, as long as the mind is in denial about
itself. Rest assured, when I walked upon your planet as a man, I, too,
often became quite frustrated at the Pharisees who would stand on the
corner in their long beautiful robes, *professing* religious belief. They
had their just reward. And this is why I often said,

> Beware of those who come in sheep’s clothing but, inwardly, are
> ravenous wolves.

For the dishonest mind is in conflict, constantly. It splits itself off
from its sexuality as a human being. It splits itself off from its
anger, its sadness, its hurt, its murderous thoughts.

But the mind that is healed has learned to turn and embrace every subtle
shadow within the mind. For Love, alone, embraces all things, trusts all
things, allows all things, and thereby, transcends all things, and need
no longer live in fear that *those things* can run it. Enlightenment is a
state in which the world--and the world is not outside of you; the
world is the context, the thoughts and images and perceptions that you
have attracted to yourself--the world can no longer hold power over
you.

It doesn’t mean that it ceases to exist, and this has been the great
error of what you call religion as opposed to spirituality. Religion
will give you a set of beliefs, ideas about yourself, standards that you
must achieve. And thereby the mind concludes that,

> If I’m to be a spiritual person, I cannot be angry. If I am a spiritual
> person, I don’t have sexual fantasies about my neighbor,

et cetera, et cetera.

And all of that is absolutely false. For in reality, the experience in
your domain is one in which the mind has created and *is aware* of all
things unlike Love. It then splits itself off and projects an image,
called the ego, to itself first, and obviously to others, that it most
wants to *believe* is true.

But remember, *belief* is not *knowledge*. Knowledge, alone, allows the mind
to observe what arises within it without judgment, without fear, without
identifying with it. It looks upon the world in perfect forgiveness:

> Ah, I just had a murderous thought. I had a picture of hitting my
> employer over the head with a sledge hammer and watching the blood spurt
> through the broken skull. Ah yes, well, just another thought arising and
> passing away in this domain. It does not change the Truth of who I am.
> And I am free to extend Love or to hit him with a hammer.

<!-- Track t5 -->

The mind which is free and at peace is no longer conflicted within
itself. The mind which is unconflicted abides in perfect vulnerability.
It has learned to embrace and accept the Truth about the phenomena of
the mind itself, in this dream world. It is willing to begin to be
honest and to cultivate deeper honesty with everyone around them. No
longer is there pretense. No longer is there manipulation or control.
There is no unconscious, split-off energy actually running the show,
even though that mind seems to be oblivious to it.

The mind in conflict with itself is *dangerous* to itself, and of course,
by extension, to everyone else in all dimensions. Therefore, indeed,
beloved friends, beware of those that come in sheep’s clothing but
inwardly are ravenous wolves. *Beware of the viciousness of the ego
within your own mind.* How does it come to you in sheep’s clothing? Does
it minimize hurtful behaviors? Does it minimize what is truly merely a
lack of self-responsibility? Does it always make excuses why your life
is not progressing in a way of becoming more and more empowered to bring
forth Christ?

Learn to cultivate self-honesty. Though it sounds like a simple thing,
this does take time, simply again, because the mind has used its own
power to be *in denial* about its own miscreations. It doesn’t want to own
them. It doesn’t want to embrace them. It wants very much for you and
itself to believe that it’s really a very high spiritual being. And it
will wear the *sheep’s clothing* of the ego, of the persona, the mask, the
self-image, the projected image into the social world. And it will cling
to that like a robe around the body, held against the cold winter wind;
and it will cling to it, no matter what. Such a mind is an insane mind,
and an *insane* mind is hurtful. An insane mind limits the flow of Love
through it that could heal this world.

Therefore, beloved friends, as we begin to move toward the close of this
year of transformation, we begin again to bring the arrow back pointing
at ourselves, to point at the depth of the mind and to learn to observe
it. If you take the list of questions that we have offered unto you and
simply repeat that process on a daily basis...So, you see, we first
began in the safety of allowing you to look way, way, way into the past,
to see if any of that has been ever going on in the mind. Now we come
closer and closer to the self-honesty of what is occurring in the mind
anyway, right here and right now, so that each day you ask the same
questions and see what the answer is.

In this way, the mind will become more and more transparent. You’ll
learn to look upon your murderous thoughts, all of those hideous,
un-spiritual things that you have tried to shove down into the basement.
And more and more, as you tell yourself the truth about them, the more
and more you find a friend or two willing to tell the truth about their
own minds with you--the more the mind becomes *transparent*, the less and
less you have any need to hide. And a mind no longer committed to hiding
becomes transparent to itself, and *through* it the Power of Christ can
begin to move--with certainty, with knowledge, with grace, and with
compassion.

<!-- Track t6 -->

The mind, then, has always been the problem--but not the entirety of
the mind, just a small corner that’s been fenced off, called the ego.
When you became identified with only that part of the mind, you became
*egocentric*, is your word. The center of your identity became the ego and
*that* is the source of the problem. Quite frankly, it’s like identifying
with a pimple on the skin, and then defending the pus within it at all
cost.

Silence is that doorway that will dissolve that pimple and that pus,
forever. Silence is arrived at in many ways, but the principle
cornerstone is *deep self-honesty*. The act of transformation, then--*The
Way of Transformation*--is a process whereby you put the *squeeze* on the
pimple of the ego and you no longer care what pus comes out, because you
just want to be done with it.

Self-honesty *is* the *greatest act of Love* that you will ever experience
within yourself--greater than any sexual union, greater than any
adulation of the world, greater than any mystical experience. The
embracing of deep self-honesty, the mastery of it, is the greatest act
of Love that the mind can experience. For in *perfect self-honesty*, the
world is transcended, fear is dissolved, enlightenment is present. And
in enlightenment there is remembrance of perfect innocence, in union
with God.

Therefore, indeed, beloved friends, you who would, in Truth, come to
know Christ: look not outside yourself. For the Kingdom is within. The
mind is your domain and the mind *is* your self. It has certain
components: an emotional component, or expression; an egoic component,
or expression. The ego, in itself, isn’t right, wrong, good, bad; it
simply is. The mistake--the knot in the rope, the blip on the screen —
is merely the *mistaken identification* of your self *with* the ego.

That is what creates a tension, a twisting of the rope that ends up
distorting everything. You end up being in judgment of yourself because
you had a sexual thought yesterday--Heaven forbid! You judge yourself
because you feel a little angry. You judge yourself because a thought
goes through the mind,

> What’s the point in being on the planet?

As long as you are identifying with those thoughts, you’re in trouble.

But when you see them as just an innocent flow, a temporary movement of
energy through a vast domain called the mind, then you know that you are
free. And you begin to taste the spaciousness and the silence that
always is around the edges of everything that arises in the mind. You
begin to become identified with that spaciousness, with that peace. And
there, wisdom returns gently. You begin, again, to remember that you
were created to create. And creation is extension, not projection.
Extension is that which *floods*, or extends outward, the good, the holy,
and the beautiful.

You no longer make justifications for not taking action to extend
compassion to other minds in the world, but rather, you begin to wrap
yourself around this world, around this planet, even around this
universe. And you proclaim and know in the depth of your being that *you*
are the Holy Son of God and you *will not* settle for less than Heaven on
Earth! No longer do the problems seem so large or complex, because you
abide in a state of Truth and Knowledge that is bigger than the world.
For you *know* that, through you, God can do *anything*--if only you will
direct your attention, open up the floodgates, and allow it to happen!

You begin to step in to the greatest place of power that there is. And
this is truly what was meant, in even your Christian religion, that
Christ returned to Heaven and sat at the right hand of the Father. Now,
who sits at the right hand?--the chief of staff, so to speak, the one
who makes it all happen. To sit at the right hand of God is to allow
*your* mind to abide in right-mindedness. And in right-mindedness you see
no separation between yourself and your brothers and sisters, which
means you see no separation between yourself and the world.

*Getting to Heaven* is no longer an attraction; *bringing Heaven* to this
world *is*. Bringing Light to darkness is all that matters. Constantly
desiring to bring greater Light to your own darkness is the way in which
you live, moment to moment, moment to moment--greater Light, greater
Light, greater Light:

> What do I need to let go of?
>
> How deep can my self-honesty go?
>
> How wide can my compassion for life spread?
>
> What actions am I actually taking in this world?
>
> What am I defending?
>
> What am I afraid of?
>
> Am I willing to become so powerful a conduit for Christ that I take on
> responsibility for the Atonement and tell Jeshua to move aside?

For the mind in right-mindedness serves only the Voice for God. It no
longer has any interest in defending the voice of egocentricity.

<!-- Track t7 -->

Therefore, beloved friends, for the next thirty days, practice
*self-honesty*. Utilize the questions we have given you--each day. Also,
merely sit down with a pad of paper and a pen and ask,

> What thoughts have gone through my mind this day?

And if you want, you can draw a line through the paper, down the center,
and on one side put loving thoughts, on the other side unloving thoughts
— remember those are just your own judgments--and see what comes up.

In Truth and Reality, in the physical domain and dimension, no one is
without unloving thoughts. Why? Because the mind is a vast space through
which, you could think of it as, radio waves are passing constantly.
Quite frankly, and we have spoken to you of this before: in the end you
don’t really know who is doing the thinking. You’re only aware of a
thought arising in the mind. The ego says,

> I am this. I am not that. This thought must be
> <span class="tr_normal">mine</span>. That thought must be yours.

In Truth, you are all swimming in the same sea, and there is merely
*thought* arising and passing away. You do have the power to discern and
select which thoughts will hold *value* for you, but it is impossible to
push away what you have decided to judge as unspiritual thoughts. Can
you imagine becoming so *free* that when a murderous thought arises, it
makes you *laugh*, and you tell the *truth*?

> Ah, when you reached across and you ate the potato chip off my plate, I
> saw an image of taking a huge ax and cutting off your hand and making
> you eat your own fingers. Ha, what a thought!

For it is the embrace with perfect self-honesty that returns the mind to
*sanity*. It is the refusal to be honest that creates the conflict and
tension in the mind that is called *insanity*. And insanity is a state in
which the mind is not at peace, and Christ cannot enter therein.

Many of you have come from a tradition that you call your Catholicism.
And within it there is a practice called confession. And this is really
the idea of that practice--although of course, it’s been used to place
guilt...that’s not the point. *Confession* means to be *willing to be
honest*. The priest was meant to be a representation, merely a symbol, of
God or Christ Mind, so that you could sit in your little box--which is
really a symbol of going into your own internal privacy, if you will,
and telling the truth to your Higher Self, to the Self that loves you
anyway, to the Mind that embraces all things and transcends all things.

Now, in Truth, that Mind will not tell you that you must go say 947,000
Hail Marys and sweep the streets of the city. It will merely say,

> Beloved Child, you are forgiven already.

For you have returned to sanity by merely confessing, to the deepest
part of your Self, what has arisen and passed away within the lower
mind, the mind associated with the body in the field of temporality —
just like going to the depth of the Ocean, into the silence thereof, and
saying,

> Yes, I was just out there on the tip of the foam on the wave...a lot
> of chaos out there. Hmm...how about that...yes, yes.

And the Ocean remains as it has always been.

<!-- Track t8 -->

Lack of honesty in self leads to lack of honesty in relationship. And
lack of honesty in relationship creates the tension and appearance of
separation and guilt, which is the very nemesis that the soul is seeking
to overcome. Self-honesty, then--the return to perfect peace —
requires, in the end, the *cultivation of vulnerability*, for,

> In my perfect vulnerability, I find my perfect safety.

The vulnerable are the *meek*, those who have returned to their own
innocence and know that the opinions and judgments of others cannot harm
them. They live, merely honest with themselves--without pretense,
without image, no longer concerned with *that world*, the insane world.
They become more and more a conduit through which the power and Love of
God begins to work. And through them, other minds are reached. And
unbeknownst to them, they become a living, walking (as long as the body
lasts) conduit through which Grace is transferred to other minds. And in
the presence of such a one, other minds *heal spontaneously*. Other minds
are attracted to such a being, not because they are doing anything, not
because *they* perceive themselves as great, but because they know that
only God is great. And there is no longer a self they are trying to
defend. And everything becomes merely a context in which they can be
used by the Holy Spirit to bring about the Atonement. They walk in the
world, *unknown* by the world, *unseen* by the world. They seem very
ordinary. They merely do as Love asks them to do.

You *are* birthing Christ. Nothing can prevent it from occurring now.
Merely trust each moment. Surrender into each moment. Embrace your
commitment to Reality. Teach only Love to yourself...by loving that
which you have hated and judged, by allowing yourself to *feel* and to
*know* that which is passing through the mind and body anyway. Embrace it.
See your ordinary humanness, not as an *obstruction* to peace, but as that
through which peace can be *extended*.

And with that, now, beloved friend, we bring this brief hour to a close.
Simple though the message has been, there is a great depth and treasure
awaiting you, if you will put it into practice with *passion*, with even
*zealousness*, with full commitment to your own Christedness, to see that
*you are worthy* of the *deepest honesty* that you can reach--that you can
confess, that you can live! For ultimately, *the deepest, honest Truth*
is:

*I and my Father are One! I am Christ Eternal*!

Therefore, indeed, beloved friends, be you therefore at peace this day.
Have fun with the exercises we have given you. And *know* how much you are
loved!

Go, then, in peace.

Amen.

