---
title: "Lesson Eleven"
toc:
- Question One
- Question Two
- Question Three
---

Now, we begin.

And indeed, once again, greetings unto you, beloved and holy friends.
Again, as always, we come forth to abide with you in this hour--*not*
from a place apart from where you are, but from that place in which the
Sonship is joined as one. And where can that be, but in the Mind of God?
And Who is God, but Love?

Therefore, in each moment, when any mind surrenders its identification
with its illusions, when it surrenders its identification with its own
thoughts, with its own needs, with its own perceived desires, and rests
into perfect silence, it rests *into* the Voice for Love. And it learns to
ask only of *that* Voice,

> What would You have me do in this moment?

And, more and more, the Voice for Love begins to *in*form the decisions,
the thought processes, the vision, the revelation--and in your world -
the action or behavior that is expressed through the temporary
coalescing of energy into the *illusion* of a body.

Therefore, indeed, beloved friends, we come forth from that place which
*is* the Voice for Love. And if any mind can, indeed, rest into that
place, it can only be because that place is *necessarily* within it. It is
the depth of the soul. That depth is not an individual. It is universal,
it is eternal, it is forever present. It knows no boundaries. It knows
no time. It simply *is* Love.

So, we abide *in that place* and we speak forth *from that place*. And if
you would well receive it, then, at any time, when anything uttered
through this mechanical device you call your tape, through yet another
mechanical device called, in your world, the channeling--when you, in
your mind, are struck by the profundity, or the Truth, of what is being
uttered--it is only because you have chosen *in that moment* to open your
*own* internal access to the Voice for Love. And what is triggered, or
what is activated, what is remembered, is that part of you that is Love
Itself; that part of the Self, the depth of the soul, that is forever
One with God.

The great trick of *evolution*, if you would permit me to use such a term,
is *to grow the soul’s awareness* so that it rests in that depth of
silence, and yet does not need to withdraw or turn away from the
expressions of creation to do so. That is, it need no longer judge the
body. It need no longer judge the world that you see around the body. It
need no longer strive to ascend to some spiritual height in which all
things disappear. But rather, to the contrary, the soul in its *maturity*,
if you will, has ascended into union with the Voice for God. That is, it
has ascended into the depth of its Self. It has learned to stabilize
Itself in that internal silence. And it has, through time, experienced
that process of transformation in which even the conscious mind is no
longer thinking for itself, but is *in*formed from the depth of the True
Self, the depth of the soul, the Voice for Love, God Itself, Christ
Itself.

<!-- Track t2 -->

Beloved friends, *The Way of Transformation*, then, involves the
deliberate decision to allow the translation of perception so that it
becomes of one mind, of one accord, with the Mind of God. It is *in*formed
from the depth of the silence and Love that sees the body, that sees the
world, that sees each moment *only as* that which holds the value which
the Holy Spirit has placed upon it.

And what is the Holy Spirit but that part of your own right-mindedness
that *knows* that only Love is Real. And yet, when any mind truly rests in
that silence, it knows that it can no longer draw conclusions about what
Love would do, what Love would express through it, how Love would use
the particular tools or gifts of any seemingly individual self--in
order to trigger, in order to nudge, in order to uplift, in order to
*shock* any other aspect of the Sonship into desiring its *own* awakening.

Now, if you pay close attention to what was just said, the implication
is perfectly clear. Reality is One and unshakable, and only Love is
Real. Yet the dream should never be denied. For denial creates
separation. Only embracing can allow healing, the healing that Love
brings. Therefore, there are, indeed, as you well know, many minds that
are still afflicted, if you will, still harboring the decision to
believe that the dream of separation is real.

When any mind within the Sonship chooses to awaken and heal its own
illusions, Love begins to inform that mind more, and more, and more, so
that its expressions serve the Voice for Love. And the Voice for Love
has only one purpose: to be extended *into* the dream, *into* the illusion,
to nudge the aspects of the Sonship yet sleeping, that the *entirety* of
the Sonship can be returned, or reawakened, to the Reality of Itself as
the creative conduit through which God extends Himself.

When any mind, then, truly awakens, it no longer sees specialness in the
world at all. Each moment is merely sacrificed, or surrendered, into
what I once called the *Will of my Father*. And what is that Will?--*the
impetus of Love*. How can Love operate so that it brings awakening to the
minds involved? That is, indeed, a *purely creative process*, and is the
only *true* value time can have.

The Awakened Mind, then, has no idea, one day to the next, what Love
will ask it to do, how Love is to be expressed through it. The Awakened
Mind knows that it is not the maker or the doer, and merely asks in
every moment,

> What would you have me do?

And the more that practice is developed, the mind is refined and
purified so that it becomes almost a spontaneous or second-nature kind
of thing, in which the mind is so closely aligned with the Will of God
that the subtle nudges, flowing forth from the depth of the Self, from
the depth of Love Itself, stirs through the conscious mind and meets no
obstruction born of fear. For where fear has been de-valued, Love
springs forth.

<!-- Track t3 -->

And yet, such a one--and each and every one of you that has chosen to
listen to these tapes has already made the decision to become *that one*,
ever more deeply and ever more deeply; make no mistake about it, the
decision has already been made and therefore the end is perfectly
certain--when that mind, that has made the decision to allow its
transformation, when that mind embraces the simplicity of its lived
experience, it looks as though it is very ordinary. While the body
lasts, you do the things that all bodies and minds do in your dimension
and world. You perhaps find the body shivering against the winter cold,
or sweating in the summer sun.

And yet, in the midst of the *contexts* of the experiences of your life,
what is informing the mind are not the egoic desires of:

> How can I get more?
> 
> How can I avoid a certain experience or feeling?
> 
> How can I make myself comfortable?
> 
> How can I get others’ approval?
> 
> How can I be acknowledged as a great master?

...and all of the rest. None of that runs that Awakened Mind.

Each context, then, is surrendered within the mind, itself, over into
the Will of Love. And that mind, through the personality, through the
body structure, while the body lasts, becomes a *conduit* that serves the
Voice for Love. And that one may not be understood; that one may not be
approved of; that one may not be acknowledged by the world. Yet, rest
assured, those who seek to be approved of and acknowledged by the world
have their reward.

And what reward is it to be acknowledged by the insane, dwelling in
illusion? Can an illusion truly acknowledge the worthiness of the Son of
God? But to such a mind (and once again, each and every one of you is in
an inevitable journey now)--you, too, shall have your reward. For there
are those of us who know you and love you, and your acknowledgment comes
not even from us, though perhaps through us, but it comes from That One
that has birthed you to extend the *good*, the *holy*, and the *beautiful*.

*The Way of Transformation*, then, is not the *gaining* of power, it is the
*release* of all illusion. It is the willingness to release the grip that
you have had upon the shadows that your mind has made up as a substitute
for the Truth of your *only* reality. The process then, of *The Way of
Transformation*, is that process in which you begin to use the mind,
quite deliberately, in a different way.

To some of you who have studied my *Course in Miracles*, that, too, is an
expression, or a form of *The Way of Transformation*, since all
transformation inevitably requires correction, *of how the mind is used*,
so that what the mind *sees* is different than the ego’s world. When the
mind is corrected, the *use* of the body that most serves Love also
naturally follows. The use of what you have created in error--which, by
the way, is the body, the personality structures, the emotional matrix,
the beliefs--all of that that makes up what you call ‘yourself,’ all of
these things are given over to be used differently.

Therefore, the deeper you come to understand, to *know* and to *feel* the
depth of the self that you have constructed, in your attempt to conform
to an insane world, the greater the space there is for you to be
*in*formed by Love. Not that the body disappears, not that the personality
structures disappear, but rather they become *transparent*. The value you
have given them has been withdrawn, and they are given over to be used
in a different way.

To use a simple example, a painter begins to paint devotional paintings
out of her love and acceptance of Grace. A speaker is brought into
alignment with Love, and that Love creates a context in which what is
spoken is spoken differently, with a different purpose and a different
intent and, therefore, to a much different audience. One who works with
the hands in the fields begins to work for a different purpose, begins
to be informed in ways to use the skills and gifts that one has
developed, perhaps to feed the hungry, the needy.

The forms of expression change to be more conformed with which *voice* is
running the show. When the ego was running the show--or thought that it
was--the personality, the emotions, and the body were used to serve the
salvation, if you will, the very survival, of the ego. When the ego has
been displaced and the Voice of Love, has been returned to the place of
authority, careers can change, *for the very meaning and purpose of
existence has changed*.

In the initial stages, as this process is occurring, this can, indeed,
elicit fear, a sense of disorientation, a sense of self-doubt. All of
these things must be embraced with faith, and faith is, indeed, the
substance of things unseen. Love isn’t quite settled in perfectly yet,
and the mind is still gripping, somewhat, the things and the ways of the
world. And yet, a deeper Voice is compelling the self to release old
values, to release old careers, old relationships, old clothing, old
furniture. Everything begins to change. And it feels as though loss is
being experienced.

And yet, what is *loss* in the world is *gain* in the Kingdom. For what can
be gained but the reawakening to the simplicity of the Truth:

> I am God’s. I belong not to the world. I and my Father are One. Well,
> since I still find myself in this world, how can I dedicate this bag of
> dust and its attendant personality and emotions to the Voice for Love?

And that becomes the *sole purpose*--we could say both the only, as *sole*,
and the *soul*, as the essence of your being--the sole purpose becomes
the willingness to allow Love to *in*form each moment.

It is quite true that such a one, born of Love, can be very
misunderstood by the world. Such a one, I once said, is one born like
the wind. You don’t know where they’ve been, you don’t know where
they’re going, and neither do they. But they are present where they are,
constantly dedicated to being merely a servant of, or a conduit of, the
Voice for Love--recognizing that time and the world no longer holds any
function, value, or purpose, save that which the Holy Spirit would give
it. And the only value the Holy Spirit gives the world is to see it as a
*context* through which the Sonship can be healed and awakened.

*The Way of Transformation* does, indeed, require what you may call
commitment, what you may call a *deliberate choice*. This can be the
value, by the way, of initiatory experiences. And, not too far in the
distant future, we will be helping to *in*form Shanti Christo, so that
initiatory experiences are offered and provided. The value of this is
that it makes conscious and public what the soul is desiring anyway, and
calls the conscious mind to step into a *deeper self-discipline*, a *deeper
self-commitment*, a *deeper self-maturity*.

<!-- Track t5 -->

Indeed, beloved friends, *The Way of Transformation*--as you have been
playing with this process this past several months of yours--is not
something ever to enter into in what would be called a *lazy* way. We
would highly suggest, then, that as you go through the mind, ask
yourself,

> Are there any of the monthly tapes that I listened to, but with only
> half an ear, with part of my attention on trying to get dinner ready, or
> getting my taxes paid, or getting to the office?

If there is any such tape that you have not brought the *wholeness* of
your being to, in a state of openness and surrender, go back, and listen
to it again. You will discover that, lo and behold, there is much that
has been missed. Each exercise has been carefully chosen. Each exercise
offers you an immediate way to begin to transform certain aspects of
your own mind. Therefore, *each moment* should be treasured.

And, please hear this: As the mind, the conscious mind, begins to become
more *in*formed by the Voice for Love, vigilance and discipline become
*even more* necessary, simply because you’re dealing with more power -
more *true power*. The purpose of your very being takes on a far different
flavor. And you begin to realize that wherever you are, there is a
*precious moment* that offers an opportunity for healing, for Love, for
awakening. And it is not to be missed. *Each moment* of your existence in
this plane, this density, *is not to be missed*! Once, when this, my
beloved brother, proclaimed to me,

> Could you please come a little later in the morning? I would like to get
> some sleep,

(at that time, three o’clock was about the appropriate time for me to
reach out to him), my answer to him was then what I will give to you
now:

> Have you not been sleeping long enough?

Will you use time constructively to realize that where you are is not in
the world at all, but in a context made *new* by your desire to awaken,
which invited the Holy Spirit to ‘take over the show,’ so to speak? And
that wherever you find yourself is *not* an ordinary moment any longer.
Though you seem to walk in the world, though you seem to deal with the
things of the world--which you must do as long as the body lasts--you
no longer *belong* to the world. Another Voice has touched you. And though
your neighbors and friends, perhaps even your children, or your spouse,
or your parents, cannot possibly yet see who walks among them, you are a
*Disciple of Christ*. And Christ is the Father’s only Creation, created in
Love, as Love, to extend Love.

And you are in the most important journey that anyone can ever take--a
journey without distance to a goal that has never changed, even into a
place that is unchangeable forever. You have undertaken the journey from
illusion to Reality, from fear to Love, from *false* power through
manipulation, through image, through conforming to the world, to *true
power*, resting in the Mind of Christ, being a *conduit* for that which
awakens the Sonship.

Every function, then, is *equal* to those that have chosen such
discipleship. Understand, then, that wherever you are right now, as you
listen to these words--*wherever you are right now*--you are in the
perfect place at the perfect moment. Therefore, indeed, bless the moment
as you find it, for it serves two purposes. One, it is that perfect
context for your awakening from illusion. And at the very same moment,
it is offering you the opportunity to cultivate your skill at being a
conduit for the Voice for Love. Two sides of one coin, existing *fully* in
the presence of each of your ‘ordinary’ moments.

And rest assured, as you come to trust the Voice for Love, as one born
of the Spirit, as one who lives as the wind, if it is time for you to
release certain forms--career, relationship, clothing, furniture,
what-have-you--[snaps fingers] you’ll know it in an instant. You simply
*know*! For revelation is knowledge. Knowledge is *immediate*. It is not
translated through a whole lot of thinking in the mind. That is why we
choose to say that it is through the *heart* that one knows the *immediate
will* of Love.

And as you practice letting go of that which you once valued, you’ll
discover that it gets easier and easier, as with each experience of
letting go you find yourself carried, in ways that you could never
comprehend or create yourself, into new formats, new contexts, in which
your own wisdom awakens even deeper. And the opportunity to be of
service expands and grows, as though you stepped from a small room in a
house into a larger ballroom and realized,

> This is <span class="tr_normal">much</span> better than where I was before!

It is not that you have failed when something ends. For, in Truth, you
cannot fail. For, in Truth, there are no endings, *except* in illusions.

We speak, then, of what we will talk much about in the next month’s tape--the
importance and distinction of *content* and *form*. We will look at
those two sides of the coin, and help to illuminate your mind and
understanding that it is *content* that always matters, and that *form* is
secondary. Form is what is birthed in *time*. And what is birthed in time,
ends in time. Even the body had a beginning and will, therefore, have an
end. And yet, when it is given over to the Voice for Love, its purpose
becomes *timeless, endless*, for it begins to express only *content*. But
again, more about that later.

<!-- Track t6 -->

In *this* hour, the theme that we would wish to bring unto you is this:
*Make a decision*--right now--*to view time differently*. Put on the Eyes of the Holy
Spirit--right where you are, *right now*. Don’t just listen to what is
said, but actually decide to do it. Look around the place you find
yourself in, the body. If you are with others at this time, notice them.
Notice all things. You are not in the world at all. You are a *Disciple
of Christ*. You have chosen, by Grace, to awaken from illusion, and to
cultivate yourself, with support and help, into being ever more a *mature
soul* that radiates the Light and Love of Christ, even while in time.

Time, then, must be *seized* and seen to be of *great value*; that each and
every moment is not a mistake. There is nothing “idle” about it. And you
are the one who is free to use that moment to be *in*formed by the Voice
for Love, to learn ever more deeply to surrender the value of fear,
safety, personal survival, and all of the rest; and to dissolve, through
faith, into the Voice for Love.

From *this* moment, decide to *see time differently*, to *seize the
opportunity* to train the mind to be *vigilant* and *aware*. There is much
occurring that may yet seem unseen to you--too subtle to grasp. You call
it, ‘being unaware.’ But the journey from unawareness to awareness
begins with the decision to walk through each moment of the day *knowing*
the Truth of who you are--to embrace the purpose and reason for your
being, and then to ask the Holy Spirit to make all things known and
clear, in alignment with the Voice for Love.

The body becomes something that you no longer possess. The thoughts that
you hold become meaningless. The context of every moment is *given over*
to something new. And the decision to see time *differently* leads you
into the cultivation of a way of *being* that is different and new. And
eventually, it will move from a mere intellectual idea into something
known in the depth of the soul and expressed through every pore of the
skin, while the body lasts:

> I am the Christ. There is only That One, and I am dissolved in and as
> That One. Call me not great, for only God is worthy of awe. That which I
> do, I do not of myself, but the Father does these things through me. I
> am One who merely loves Love so deeply that I am willing to surrender
> all things that I once knew to be my self, that my true Self, who is
> Christ, informs my every decision, my every gesture, my every extension
> of the <span class="tr_normal">good</span>, the <span class="tr_normal">holy</span>, 
> and the <span class="tr_normal">beautiful</span>.

A certain phraseology that we are aware of in your language of your
world is,

> Hmm! This is some <span class="tr_normal">heavy</span> stuff!

It is *very heavy* to the ego, since it squashes it like a gnat under a
weight. If the light of the sun, if the sun itself were to come and rest
upon your planet, what would happen to your planet? It is much like that
when the Light of Christ comes to descend again, to touch the mind and
the emotions and the body--where once the ego held sway. The ego
dissolves into Light Itself. It becomes remade, if you will. And while
the body-mind lasts, it becomes a mere servant.

The mind, itself, laughs at itself a great deal. For it sees the great
joke that it has played on itself. It attempted to be other than what
God created it to be. And it experienced a multitude of dramas and
illusions and story lines, careers, relationships, diseases, and all of
the rest, in a *grand attempt* to be other than what Reality is. And so,
the mind that is awakening laughs at itself a lot. It laughs as the echo
of old patterns show up. It tells the Truth about them. It need no
longer deny them, for it holds no value, and the old patterns are not
seen as a cave in which to hide. The personality becomes *transparent*.
And in its innocence, it becomes perfectly *vulnerable*. And in its
perfect vulnerability, it finds its *transcendent safety*.

<!-- Track t7 -->

Indeed, then, beloved friends, many of you began this journey out of
curiosity. And yet, I say unto you, that was only the conscious mind’s
attempt to maintain control of the journey itself. But no one comes to
these messages who has not made the decision from the depth of the soul,

> I am tired of suffering. I am tired of aloneness. I desire to dissolve
> into Christ Mind and to discover the Truth of who I am.

Everyone hearing these words has made that decision. And you’re already
well on your way. And if you think you can turn around and go back to
the platform and cash in your ticket, forget it! The train has already
left the station, the conductor is God Himself, and those that enter
herein cannot leave. The ego will try to convince you you should,
because it is fighting for its life. But there is another Who fights for
your *true* Life, even that Comforter given unto everyone in the moment
the dream began.

So, well do I know what *must emerge*, once the decision has been made.
Each and every one of you will then perceive that your journey is unique
and wholly yours. But this is only because you still perceive yourself
as a separate being. Why? Because the eyes of the body show you that you
are. Because you have lived with a certain husband, and you, therefore,
know that everyone else on the planet did not. You will believe that
that portion of your journey was “uniquely” yours--with “unique”
energies that probably no one else could understand.

And yet, that was only the matrix, or the *form*, which was expressing a
*content* of energy. And that *content of energy*--whether it be fear,
whether it be jealousy, anger, whatever it is--*is known by everyone*.
This is what we mean when we say there are no private thoughts, no
private experiences. The body, of course, has its unique experience.
Only one body can be in a point of space at any given time. And if
you’re making love in the middle of the night and you look around, you’d
swear nobody else is present. Rest assured, you live in glass houses.
And all things are perfectly visible to the entirety of Creation.

It is the *energies* that you are experiencing that everyone knows. And
the trick of healing and awakening is to come to see the *neutrality* of
all energy, so that you can choose to inform it with the value that the
Holy Spirit would give it. Then, time becomes *sacred*. It becomes
*eternal*. It becomes a *tool for Love*. Even the body becomes a tool that
Love uses to bring about healing. What other purpose could a body hope
to have?

So, indeed, please do the exercise of making sure that there has not
been a tape that you have listened to with half a mind. Go back. If you
wish, practice your five minutes as Christ, and then begin the listening
of the tape--that your *soul* might *absorb* it. And when there are
exercises to do, do them--even if it just takes a minute. You cannot
begin to see how the pebble dropped into the pond can have such vast,
vast and deep effects.

If you would still choose to look upon me as one who did great things,
rest assured, the effects that you came to know about, because certain
stories were told about me and then finally written down--and, by the
way, some of those are a bit outlandish--those things came about because
I, too, had teachers that showed me how to drop new pebbles in the pond
of my mind, whose commitment and intent was the same as ours, which is
to guide you into the fullness of your discipleship, until the
transformation has been thoroughly completed on Earth--that is, in the
body-mind--as it is already in Heaven. For the correction has already
occurred. It happened the moment [snaps fingers] you had the thought of
separation, long before space and time was birthed. But you discover
that the correction has, indeed, been fulfilled as you *allow* your
creations in time--the body-mind--to be transformed, so that the
conscious mind becomes perfectly aligned with what the depth of the Self
already knows. And then, and only then, can the mind truly release the
illusion of the third-dimensional plane, the physical dimension. For it
is simply seen as a useless limitation.

<!-- Track t8 -->

So in ending, then, this hour’s message, do this one thing. In each of
your next seven days, as often as you remember to do so--and remember,
you will only remember what you choose to value--as often as you
remember, *decide to see time differently* and *to acknowledge that you are
a Disciple of the Mind of Christ*, and nothing matters to you than
the simplicity of allowing the dissolution of illusions so that
Christ can come and live where once the ego dwelt in authority.

A simple exercise. And if a day goes by in which you forget, it can only
be because, in that day, you have valued something else.

And with that, then, beloved friends, as we prepare this hour’s message,
we would behold, then, that there is one who has some questions to ask.
And they are both timely and important questions. We will, then, what
you call the “shifting of the gears,” before we bid you “adieu” is the
word, I believe.

And so, then&mdash;questions.

---

## Question One

[*Question One*](/t/wom/wot/l11/q1/): Each soul has the same purpose,
that is, to wake up fully from separation from God. Yet, within the
dream, in space and time, based on soul experiences and predilections,
do we have our own unique purpose?
{: .omit}

---

## Question Two

[*Question Two*](/t/wom/wot/l11/q2/): Could you please elaborate on
the *Lineage*, and how one comes to be in your lineage, and speak of
soul groups?
{: .omit}

---

## Question Three

[*Question Three*](/t/wom/wot/l11/q3/): Can you speak about
*specialness* and *holiness* in regard to expressing sexuality?
{: .omit}

