---
title: "Lesson Twelve"
---

Now, we begin.

And indeed, once again, greetings unto you, beloved and holy friends. As
always, I come forth to join with you, not from a place that is apart
from where you are, but from that place in which we are eternally joined
as one Mind and one Heart, one Truth, one Creation...one Love. I
come forth, then, to abide with you from the place in which you dwell
eternally. I come forth to abide with you because *I love you*. I come
forth to abide with you because you are as I am--*the Thought of Love in
form*.

And to those of you that have joined with us these many months of your
year, we come now to the conclusion of *The Way of Transformation*; that
Way, then, which allows the perception of the mind to be transformed
from illusion to Reality, from fear to Love. *That Way* is the way in
which you come to the brink, or to the edge, of the Kingdom of Heaven,
in which you are *finally* ready to use the power of the mind to declare
*only* what is true. And what is true is unshakable forever.

And at no time has a single illusion that has stolen across the vast
expanse of your being ever changed the Truth that is true always. And
the declaration of that Truth is the essence of words that I, too, once
had need of speaking:

> I and my Father are One. I, as a ray of Light, am One with that Source
> of Light from which all things spring forth. I, as a drop of water, am
> One with the Ocean from which all moisture arises. I am that One sent
> forth from Divine Mystery to bring forth the good, the holy, and the
> beautiful to reflect in time, to reflect in form, that which is
> timeless, that which is formless, that which I have referred to as
> Abba, or Father, that Creative Source that births all things and has
> an immediate and direct relationship with all of Creation.

That Truth is true about you. It has been, in fact, the only thing that
has *ever* been true. And in each moment, the power of the mind allows it
to remember the Truth, if it will *choose* the Truth.

*The Way of Transformation*, then, has been designed to guide you with
specific exercises, with many fundamental questions, to the brink of
that decision in which the mind declares, for itself, from within
itself, and then extending outward:

> I and my Father, I and my Creative Source, I and Love are One. And from
> this moment forward, I walk and live as one who chooses to use the power
> of mind, the power of awareness, the power of intention, the power of
> clarity, the power of beingness itself, to know the Truth that sets all
> things free, to be the Truth that allows freedom to be extended to all
> others, to walk upon this plane, while yet the body lasts for a little
> while, as that One who has been sent forth as a ray of Light to shine
> Light into a world that has feared it.

I invite you, then, as we come to the close of this year’s lessons, to
truly set aside time to withdraw yourself from the roar and the din of
the world, to withdraw yourself from all the beliefs you have held about
yourself or about anyone. And there, in the silence of your own heart,
to simply acknowledge that *the Truth must be true always*, and that *the
time is at hand* for you to use the power of the mind given unto you of
your Creator in the only way that it can be used sanely:

> I and my Father, I and my creative Source, are One!

Why is this important? In the end, all technique, all methodologies and
strategies, are really magical means for taking away the egoic part of
the mind’s insistence upon the authority of its illusions, to seduce, to
trick the mind, to bring it to a place where it *must* come unto, in order
to truly step forward--in and as Life, Itself. All strategies and all
methodologies, even those that we’ve given unto you this year, are given
unto you because the mind has been held sway by illusion.

The art of *lessening the value* that the mind places upon illusion is all
that can be taught. But all teaching is designed to return the mind to
the brink of the Kingdom of Heaven. There, and there alone, the mind
itself, that which you essentially are, must, from the *depth of its
beingness*--unattached to anyone or anything--the mind itself must
declare its decision to be awake, to assume the mantle of responsibility
for bringing forth into this world only the Light of Truth--in each
moment, with each breath, with every gesture, with every intention, with
every vision and thought, with every choice.

Indeed, beloved friends, *The Way of Transformation* brings you to the
brink of *The Way of Certain Knowledge*. *The Way of Transformation* is a
journey without distance to a goal that has never changed. It is merely
a *change of mind*: the decision to value the Truth, and the Truth alone.

When that decision has fully been embraced--you might think of it as a
full embrace that embodies every cell of your being, the totality of all
that you are--it becomes perfectly devoted to your union with God, and
the recognition that as the *Created*, it is time to relent, or repent, or
to *surrender resistance to Truth*, and to accept that the Love of God has
been given to you *fully*, without measure, without condition, and that
you have been created to live *from* that Love...that *that* Love might
inform every thought and every deed...that that Love might pour forth
through you as the very Source of your own identity.

> No longer I, but Thine,

would be one way of saying it.

When the mind has fully come to the recognition that no other decision
holds value or purpose, that no other decision can bring the soul the
peace and the fulfillment that it has sought in so many ways in the
fields of illusion, *then, the Father takes the final step for you*. That
is, by an act of Grace, that tiny drop of water that seemed to be so
separate from the Ocean, dissolves and melts into the Ocean, Itself. And
there is no longer a separate self to be found. The body-mind?... Yes,
of course. It arises and continues for yet a little while, until its
purpose is fulfilled. And then, it is put aside as a toy that has been
outgrown.

The mind, the power of consciousness, slips into the perfect and eternal
Truth that has been true always:

> There is only the Love of God. And I am only in existence to express
> that Truth.

In *The Way of Perfect Knowledge*, all efforting is suspended. And the
mind flows, borne by Love. It flows like the wind, knowing not where it
comes from or where it’s going, for its cares are not in the world. Its
*certainty* is in Love. And peace pervades the entirety of the mind,
wherever it *happens* to find its attention placed. And all things of the
world have been translated into merely devices whereby the Truth might
be communicated to the whole of Creation, to a brother or to a sister.
For in Truth, all of you are exactly *that*--perfectly equal, perfectly
innocent, perfectly radiant and shining, forever.

You become *The Anointed*. You become *The Messiah*, that which brings forth
the Word of God, to use that language. You become *The Christ*. Yet, this
is not an accomplishment. It is merely the return to an ancient
remembrance of what has always been. The mind, having surrendered all
resistance to Love, merely abides in the certainty of a *perfect*
knowledge. This, then, awaits you *now*, on just the other side of a final
decision.

Look well, then, at all that has transpired for you in this past year.
Has it been by accident? Have the chance encounters, have the insights,
the visions--has all of this been by chance? Hardly, for in the *depth*
of your *being* you *chose* to enter into *The Way of Transformation*. You
chose to open the depth of your being to a reflection of the Truth you
already know, given to you by an ancient brother who has loved you since
before time is, one who has merely chosen to enact the extension of Love
in whatever way is available.

As I have said unto you many times, I am not limited in how I
communicate with any mind that would open a place for me. This context
through which I speak with you now is but one of many. Yet it is the way
in which many of you have made the decision to *allow* that communication
to be known to your conscious mind. It is the context you have chosen to
allow your release from fear and your embrace of Love.

I once said unto you that all things that begin in time, end in time,
for their purpose is not to become a substitute for what is eternal, but
to be devices whereby the remembrance of the eternal is returned to
every mind which is a part of the Sonship--the One Mind, the Mind of
Christ, in which you dwell and have your true being.

*The Way of Transformation*, then, had a beginning and it has an end. *The
Way of Certain Knowledge*, which will comprise the whole of this next
year’s sharing, will have a beginning and will have an end. And rest
assured, I say unto you, that when *The Way of Knowledge* has been
imparted to you, and we have come into the perfect blending in which *you
know* that you walk the plane as awake as I ever did, then the purpose of
our three year teaching-learning period will have come to a conclusion.

This does not mean that I will depart from where you are. But it does
mean that you will have stepped into the certainty that you are that
One. And what you would seek to gain from me, you will find in the
temple of your own heart. There I will join with you--not as your
teacher or savior, but as your friend and equal, as a co-creator. You
will be free then, because you will no longer be *seeking* knowledge from
me--you will be *extending Love* from the soul of your own beingness. And
you will be free to invite me as a friend to join with you in your
creations. And that is an invitation that I will *gladly* accept! For the
only purpose of creation is to extend Love.

Relationship is eternal. Friendship is eternal. Co-creativity is the
essence of knowing God...co-creativity with the sole purpose of
*birthing in Light* the *good*, the *holy*, and the *beautiful*--that which
brings the vibration of Truth and reflects it in the world of time; that
which touches fear and dissolves it; that which touches guilt and
replaces it with forgiveness; that which touches resistance and tension
and replaces it with willingness and peace.

Can there be any purpose in existence but this? For this were you
birthed in the Holy Mind of your Creator. For this have you journeyed
through the labyrinths of everything *unlike* Love, that you might truly
*choose* to return with perfect freedom into the *marriage* of Creator and
Created; Divine Son, Divine Spark. For the union of Father and Son, or
Creator and Created, is *so intimate* and *so perfect* and *so filled* with
the *Perfection of Love* that, in Truth, you will look and see no longer
where you end and the Father begins. You will be like the *perfect lover*
of God, given over to that Love, pervaded by that Love, melting with
that Love.

And yet, you will know always that you are the Created. You are like the
Wave to the Ocean, and the Sunbeam to the Sun. And you will marvel with
every breath. And spaciousness will come to the mind, and even into the
cells of the body, in which you abide in the knowingness--beyond all
conceptualization, beyond the reach of all beliefs, beyond the hope of
every religion--the Reality of the Living Spirit of the Living God.

*The Way of Transformation*, then, comes to a conclusion as you sit
quietly with yourself and look upon the past year’s lessons, the
insights, the changes, the chance encounters, and you *accept* and *know*
that the being--the mind, the perceptions that began twelve months ago
*that being no longer exists*, except as the echo of an ancient memory.
And you no longer need to invest the power of your identity with what is
passed away.

*The Way of Certain Knowledge* begins with this. Rest assured, then, that
in the next roughly thirty-day period, between the time that you receive
these words and the time that new words are given, with a focus and a
context which will be known as *The Way of Knowing*, these next thirty
days are your *final transition*, if you will but accept it--in which you
can turn away from the past and look back upon it no longer; in which
you can step into the Light of the future of your own personal destiny,
held in the hands of a perfectly loving Creator that *already* has a plan
for you, or you would not have been birthed, for you are *certainly* not
an accident!

This next thirty days is the *most critical* for you. For *it is now up to
you, alone*, to decide to acknowledge the Truth, to decide what you are
committed unto: the Voice of the Holy Spirit or the voice of fear. Are
you committed to using the things of space and time to reaffirm the *old
beliefs* that you are separate from God? Or will you use the things of
time--allow the Holy Spirit to use them for you--to demonstrate for
you that you are *in* the world but no longer of the world? You are no
longer possessed and owned by the world, but you are *owned* by that Voice
for Love that has birthed you and sent you forth to bring forth the
*Word*.

And the *Word* is just that vibration in which peace, forgiveness, *knowing*
abides. The Word is like a vibration, a wave that emanates from the
depth of the Ocean, that speaks of the *good*, the *holy*, and the
*beautiful*; that looks upon the things of space and time even upon the
body--and sees *nothing* to be feared, but sees all things in their
*perfect, harmless innocence*; that owns and embraces the totality of your
perfect freedom.

You are Pure Spirit. You are as the wind. You can neither possess nor be
possessed, for you are owned of the Creator. Love *embraces* you. Love
*pervades* you. And you hear no other voice but the Voice for Love. And
through your eyes will shine a light so clear--for indeed, the eyes are
the window of the soul--through you can begin to emanate the Truth that
is true always. And you will not fear looking into the eyes of a brother
or a sister and saying unto them:

> I am that One sent forth of the Father. And if I am with you in this
> moment, my only purpose is to be present as Love--with you, for you,
> for us, and for all of the Sonship.
>
> This is the choice I make. This is the beingness I bring. This is the
> Truth that I am devoted to. I bring you only Love.

Indeed then, beloved friends, *The Way of the Heart* was designed to open
you to the reality that within you lies a center of peace, a center of
forgiveness, a center that can begin to take you toward certain knowing.
*The Way of Transformation* was designed quite specifically--for those of
you that truly enjoined it--to dissolve certain patterns in the mind,
to reactivate your power to *deliberately decide* what you will think,
what you will feel, what you will create, what you will believe, what
frequencies of thought will be acceptable unto you.

And now, you come to the brink of a decision that *closes the door* on a
past once made in error that has been corrected, through the Grace,
through the gift, of the Holy Spirit and placed within your mind and
heart--and the *opening of a door* of a Life lived not *seeking* the
Kingdom, but a life lived *in* the Kingdom, *in the Light of the Kingdom
of Perfect Truth:*

> I AND MY FATHER ARE ONE. Nothing can arise by accident. And my only
> purpose is to embrace Creation, that the good, the holy, and the
> beautiful might be extended through even this body-mind, wherever it
> happens to be. For my delight is the Love of my Creator, my devotion
> to the extension of Love, my peace from the embrace of my brothers and
> sisters in the simplicity of a celebration that shall know no end.

I am perfectly aware that there are many of you, as you will be
listening to these words, who will feel, yet, a subtle contraction, as
fear *attempts*--one final time--to claim ownership of your being. You
are free to choose otherwise. You are free to say:

> No! It is Truth I accept. It is Truth I will know. It is Truth I will
> live--not for another, but for myself. For my only responsibility, from
> the moment of my creation, was to accept the Atonement for myself, to
> allow the transformation to occur in the depth of my own mind, so that
> ancient words become, in Truth, mine: I and my Father are One, and I
> know it! Henceforth, I am free to walk this Earth in gentleness, not to
> strive to move into the future, but to be borne by the Wings of Love
> ... to be borne by the Wings of Love that will carry me into the
> fulfillment of my destiny. And my destiny can only be that which
> reflects God in this world.

Let not fear claim authority over the mind any longer. This does not
mean that you won’t occasionally feel it like a wave through you. The
difference is that you *need not value it*.

The final stage, *The Way of Certain Knowing*, is to *claim your right* to
be *perfectly happy*. And perfect happiness can come only from the soul’s
decision to acknowledge the *decision to value the Truth and to live it*.
Nothing else can bring the soul to the completion of its peace. No other
decision, no other thinking process, brings the Son to the Father,
brings the Daughter to the Mother, brings the Created to the Creator,
brings the Sunbeam to the Sun, brings the Wave to the Ocean--in perfect
remembrance that *only Love is Real*. And what is Real cannot be
threatened.

The world no longer holds the illusory power that you once gave unto it.
It becomes no longer something you must conform yourself *to* in order to
survive. For you are Life Eternal, and your Life is held in the
abundance of God’s Love. You stand, then, on the brink of the complete
transformation of the perception of the world. It will be radically
changed [snaps fingers] in the twinkling of an eye as you look out upon
it and say:

> There is nothing here that has a greater power than the Love of God. And
> because I abide in that Love, I am freed from needing anything of the
> world. And I am free only to give to the world. And what I give is added
> unto me, for by teaching I learn, and by giving I receive. And my love
> of God is matched only by my love of My Self as that which God has
> created--perfect and whole and innocent. And my love for My Self is so
> deep and so purified of the falseness of guilt and smallness and egoism
> that I want all of God! And I will bring forth only that which allows me
> to feel and to know my Oneness with That Frequency and That Light.

I once said that if you are not wholly joyous, it can only be because
you have elected to use the power of your mind to think *differently* than
your Creator. *The Way of Knowing* will bring you into the certainty of a
perfect joy that is *unshakable*. Imagine, then, no more swings of
depression, no more swings of self-doubt--just *pure beingness of Love*,
right where the ego used to claim property rights.

The Life which you were created to live is in the palm of your hand. The
decision to end this year of *The Way of Transformation* by simply
acknowledging that,

> Only the Truth can be true and I am fully committed to being only that,

brings you into the Kingdom--no longer a journey *to* it, but now, the
*eternal* journey *within it*...mystery upon mystery, miracle upon
miracle, sublime beauty upon sublime beauty...peace, peace, growing
into peace as you *surrender* and sink into the Reality of God’s presence
... forevermore, forevermore and forevermore. For God is without end
and knows neither height nor depth. There is *no limit* to the Reality of
the Creator.

And there can be no greater joy than to allow your consciousness, which
is the gift of your awareness, to be ever permeated deeper and deeper
and deeper by the certainty of a perfect knowing:

> I AM THAT ONE! And I abide in that Love prior to every breath, every
> thought, every gesture. This body is not what I am, but I will use it as
> a communication device. I will not use it to separate myself from my
> brother or sister. I will use it to gesture in the ways of Love, the
> ways of respect, the ways of gentleness, the ways of embrace, the ways
> of appreciation, the ways of thankfulness. I will see my Father in my
> brother and my sister. And I will love that and honor them as the
> vehicle, the conduit, that brings the Light of my Father to even my
> physical eyes.
>
> I will revel in the delight of how the sunlight sparkles on the dew upon
> the petal of a flower. I will listen to the barking of a dog and know
> that Mystery has been made manifest. I will walk this Earth as one who
> is free, and one who is the spaciousness through which only Love abides
> and is offered.

And many will be sent unto you who will awaken in your presence--in
even ‘ordinary’ moments. *You stand at the brink of all that the soul has
desired!* Is it not time to wrap the fingers of the hand around what has
been placed in the palm?

> I am that One.

Time to live *in* the Kingdom, guided *only* by the Voice for Love, by the
Voice for Truth, by the Purity of Spirit.

So, I would ask you then, now, to set aside yet a little time in which
you abide wholly with yourself. Acknowledge the Truth that is true
always. I invite you to use the power of the clarity of your mind to
decide *against* valuing illusions, and use that power to *value only the
Truth*, that you might offer yourself *into* a Life through which the Truth
that is true always becomes *concretely embedded in the totality of your
being*. For you, indeed, will *know* the Truth and you will know that it
has set you free.

Spend some little time, then, by yourself--quietly, *alone*. A long time
ago, I said once unto you that the decision was made *alone, in the depth
of your being*, to see if you could create *unlike* God, if you could
transform yourself into something which is other than what God has
created. That has been the whole drama and dream of the realm of
separation. You *must* come back to claiming ownership, *alone*, in which
you decide to use the power of the mind to make a *different* decision -
in the *depth of your being*. For you stand *alone* before your God, Who
waits patiently for His Child to awaken, to receive the gifts that the
Father would bestow upon the Son, that the Sun would shine forth upon
the Sunbeam, that the Ocean would give unto the Wave...all power
under Heaven and Earth to bring forth the good, the holy, and the
beautiful...to walk *in time* as one who is *timeless*...to abide as
a body-mind, yet one who knows they are Pure Spirit, shining forth
*temporarily* through the body.

It is given unto you, then--*now*--in the depth of your internal
silence, *to reclaim ownership of your mind*, to let parents, to let
society, to let everyone off the hook. No one has *caused* you to feel
what you feel, to think what you think, to act as you have acted. You
have used the power of the mind to attempt the great impossibility of
making yourself into something that is *other* than what God has created.
And now it is time to *deliberately* use the *power* of the mind to decide
*with* your Creator.

It is the end of all seeking. It is the end of all striving. It far
transcends the purest and greatest of strategies and methodologies. It
is beyond prayer. It is beyond meditation. *It is the simplicity of the
Truth.*

Therefore, abide quietly. And for those of you that will, indeed, make
the decision and will step across the edge, across the veil into the
Kingdom, we indeed will abide together for yet one more year in *The Way
of Knowing--The Way of Perfect Knowing*. And you will see the totality
of your life *radically transformed*. For that *must* be the case when the
*seeker* is no more, and it has been replaced by one who has *found*--and
*acknowledges* it!

Miracles will lead the way. For the mind that is given to true devotion
to the Holy Spirit is unlimited forever in all ways. And the whole of
Creation shapes Itself to be of service to the One that is anointed and
claims it, and lives only to give God to the world. Not one concern will
arise before you that will not be taken care of and met before you run
into it. The walls will dissolve.

You will be the miracle-minded. You will be the One who shines forth in
perfect effortlessness, in perfect peace, and perfect joy. You will be
Christ Incarnate. And that--*that*--is the purpose for which you were
birthed in the Mind of God. And it is in That Mind that you are held--now and
forevermore!

Be you, therefore, at peace--this day and always.

Be you, therefore, in the Perfect Knowledge that I am your brother and
friend, and nothing but this. I am That One who loves you and sees only
the Light of Truth in you, and looks forward to the day in which we
create together as *equals*, in honor and devotion to the Great Mystery
that the Love of the Creator *Is*.

Peace, then, be unto you always.

Amen

