---
title: "WOH Lesson Twelve - Question Two"
contents: "woh"
---

### Way of the Heart, Lesson Twleve: Question Two

There seem to be many, many women who tap into memories and
experiences of being Mary Magdalene. Can you talk about that, or the
fragmentation of that one soul?

---

### Answer

Beloved friend, we would suggest here there are many in what you
call the male body that also hold secretly that very same thing, a
little more deeply, because they would perceive that it would truly be
seen or perceived as insanity.

> Well, since I only have this kind of apparatus ...

what you call the plumbing and that which helps to — in the procreation
process of the body,

> since it is of a certain type, surely I could not possibly have ever
> known incarnation in any other kind of form. So, if I say to another “I
> believe I’ve tapped into being — having been — Mary, the one that you
> speak of,” but then I would certainly be laughed at. Because, after all,
> my chest has too much hair on it. But no, I don’t believe I’m just the
> body!

Now, what occurs? In the beginning, Mind is One. You — we speak to all
"yous" — were That Mind. A dream was dreamt in which fragmentation seems
to have occurred. In that fragmentation, it is as though many individual
Points of Light, Souls, Sparks of Divinity, call yourself whatever you
want, call yourself a Burp in the Mind of God ... it doesn’t matter.
That is the *result* of the dream of separation, which, in Reality, never
occurred.

It does rather boggle the mind — thank God for that! In that process,
many worlds have been birthed, and continue to be birthed, by Mind as It
perceives Itself as fragmented. In one tiny, tiny, tiny speck of dust or
speck of Light, a world was birthed that you call the Earth, and all
life forms with it. And in that tiny speck, a time frame was evolved or
created in which human bodies were given names. And minds believe
themselves to be, much as you still do yet today, that you are somehow
something other than the one who sits apart or across from you, just
because there’s a body that creates the perception that there’s a
distance from you.

One such very temporary illusory fragmentation is That One known as Mary
of Magdalene, Mary of Magdala. Within that dream, one emerged known as
Jeshua ben Joseph. And in the process of that expression of that dream,
these two, shall we say, looked upon each other and went,

> Oh, my goodness! How sweet it is!

That is, as souls, as yet still parts of that dream — it’s not that
we’re from someplace higher than you. We’re all in it together, since
Mind is One.

In that dream, there was relationship, 2,000 years ago in embodied form,
between two Sparks of the same Mind, manifesting as individualized
consciousness. One is called Jeshua, one is called Mary. And a rather
nice friendship evolved in which one seemed to serve as the teacher and
the savior, and the healer of the other, who then, in turn, served as
supporter, healer and awakener of the other.

Now here’s the point: That individualized focus of Light lives within
*everyone*. How could it be other than that? Just as I, as an
individualized aspect of the dream, *abide wholly in everyone*. You, again
speaking to all of you, could not begin to recognize me as Jeshua ben
Joseph, that individualized Spark of Divinity that somehow got its
“stuff” cleared up enough to remember the Truth and let it shine
through -- you could not know me or remember me, if I was not you. It
takes *One* to recognize *One*.

So when you approach the question of Mary Magdalene from the perspective
that there is something separate from yourself to begin with, you’ll end
up with all kinds of fantastic perceptions and philosophies. Now, within
the dream, That One, who’s really you, experienced a process of healing
and awakening, a transformation, a healing of the heart, experienced
relationship with me and many others, experienced passion and sensuality
— what you call the little sparks that excite the cells. When This One
died — and death is an illusion — that crystallized contraction of
energy has, in itself, never incarnated again.

However, it has — in a sense, you could perceive it this way — extended
or radiated aspects or strands of Light of its own being that have made
a home in other individualized body-minds. And therefore, in the process
of healing and awakening, This One needs to be looked upon as a *symbol*
of an aspect of the part of consciousness that is awakening within
yourself — that part that can recognize and love Christ and take Christ
into its arms, *your* arms, and embrace it as the *Beloved*.

It is time to release the insane perception that there is a separate
you, distinct from all other "yous", that has incarnated over and over
again. We talk this way because a teacher must have a form of language
that the student can understand. But the point is to lead *beyond* that
language and understanding, to release the attachment and the value that
has been placed on an *individualized past*. And to anyone who feels that
they *must* have been Mary: You’re not special. Do not make the egoic
mistake of claiming That One as yourself, in order to feel *special* or
*closer* to God.

Your value is not found in the past. It is not found in who you *were*,
but in who you are choosing to be *now*. And if your name is Fred or Ralph
or Hazel, it doesn’t matter. For Hazel can be just as Christed as Mary
ever was. And indeed, Hazel *must* become Christed in order to be free.

It is the egoic mind that looks to the *past*. It is the egoic mind that
*requires specialness*. It is the egoic mind that simply refuses to let
you, so to speak, settle in to be Hazel, or Fred, or George, or
Anastasia. These are merely sounds floating in the ethers that designate
a temporary aspect of Christ’s incarnation. So you’re beginning to see,
then, why there can be so many "Marys." Some are sincerely tapping into
that aspect of the One Mind. Some need to create the illusion that they
were That One because they refuse to heal the holes in their bucket
where they are, and seek to reach back and find that energy in another
and make it their own. It is called *special relationship*.

Look well, then, and see:

> Is there anything lingering in me which needs to reach out to grab
> another part of myself in some ancient past so that I can finally feel I
> have some measure of worthiness?

The only thing that defines your worthiness is how well you are choosing
to be the embodiment of Christed Consciousness *now*.

This is why I once taught, and continue to teach, that belief in
reincarnation is not necessary for awakening. And if you think it is,
you may rest assured that, if there’s anything unhealed from the past,
it is with you now. Learn to look only to how you are *now*. For there you
will discover the effects of what was not healed in what you perceive to
be the past.

You need not go to the great Akashic Record Library and research
yourself on the cosmic microfiche of the world in order to discover who
you *were*, so that you will understand why you’re such a schmuck now.

[Laughter]

> There, I finally got it! Whew! Ah, that explains everything.

As you down yet another beer. You are creating your schmuckness nowhere
but right now. So, will you be the princess of schmuckdom? Or will you
don the cloak of one who assumes complete responsibility for creating
their experience?

To those that seem to feel an affection for the "Johns", and the "Marys",
and the "Peters", the "Judases", notice that it’s coming up in your
consciousness so that you can make the decision to love that expression
of the dream and see the Christedness that is its essence. Bring it into
yourself. Love it. Let it go. Let it be assimilated to that which you
are.

Therefore, for all of you, then, to contemplate, especially if you’re
feeling some affection or attraction or identification with this Mary,
why not stop keeping Her at arm’s length and, in your meditation, ask
yourself,

> What are the qualities of That One that make me feel so affectionate
> toward Her? What is it in Her that I desire to have within myself?

And bring those qualities in. Again, as though you were a sponge. Make
them part of your being. Overcome the fragmentation that has occurred in
the dream of separation. Does that make sense for you?

Now, I know that what I’ve just shared might give a few a bit of a start
when they hear these words. If it does, it only means that they’re yet
needing to perceive themselves as having some *special* form of
relationship that somehow got lost in an ancient past. No. It is not
lost. And they must take another step and realize that they have to
start doing the work, if that is what it is perceived to be, of getting
on with what has not been completed here and now.

> Am I embodying Christed Consciousness?

Yes or no.

> What steps do I need to take to do that?

That’s all there ever is.

That should suffice for now. The only other alternative, of course, is
to remain in the kingdom of schmuckness.

