---
title: Preface
---

It is August 8, 1990. Not far beyond a tiny town on the southwestern
coast of the island of Hawaii, a narrow road winds down from the highway
to a lovely little spot named Keokea. The coastline here is rugged.
Battered cliffs of reds and browns plunge from treeline to sea. There is
a jetty of sorts that runs from the end of the northernmost cliffs. A
crude pile of boulders, it creates a shallow lagoon just right for small
children to swim in. There is no white sand beach and, thank God, no
throng of tourists baking in the delicious Hawaiian sun.

Near the center of the park a stream meanders through the dense foliage.
Here I bathed yesterday, making my way far enough upstream to be out of
sight. I dipped my body into the cool waters, then sat on a rock,
allowing the warm caress of a gentle breeze to dry me, breathing deeply
the sweet fragrance of plumeria.

Here, in this magical spot that evokes memories of Eden from some
forgotten place of the soul, meditation comes easily. In no time at all,
I feel that familiar place, as though I have come to the eye of the
hurricane, “the stillpoint of the turning world.”

A familiar vibration; He is here. As though waiting for me to return
Home from a journey, He knocks gently, assuredly, on the door of my
heart. I answer, turning my attention to Him, and Him alone.

*It is time for us to begin our second work together. For this did I
suggest the notebook.* (He refers to a small red binder that I
impulsively threw into my shopping cart a few days ago.) *Use this solely
for our communications. The publication of The Jeshua Letters is now
imminent.* (A series of events, none of which I could have imagined,
would begin within a month that did, indeed, lead to the book’s
publication.)

*Again, I suggest that you continue in your learning of trust. It is not
important that you see how all things will be accomplished. Remember, to
the world the awakened mind seems naive, but the opinions of those who
believe what is Real, is not, and what is not Real, is, surely should
not be heeded.*

I am distracted. The mosquitoes have won. Sighing, I rise from the rock,
dress, and return to camp...

<div markdown="1">
![line](/public/img/wom/line4.jpg)
{: .omit}
</div>

One of the reasons I love Hawaii so much is this moment. The sun has
long since set, replaced by a bright, full moon. It illuminates trees
and rocks and ocean waves, while painting cloud edges in silver-white,
and still it is warm! Warm enough to lay here undressed, drinking the
energies of this place deep into every cell.

As, again, I feel His presence within me, a thought of amazement arises
in my mind. He is continuing our conversation now as if there was no
break in our communication. This simple fact is a gentle reminder that
time is somehow not quite what I have learned it is. As He speaks, I see
it, the title:

<p markdown="1" class="center">__The Way of the Servant__</p>
{: .omit}

<p markdown="1" class="center">*Living the Light of Christ*</p>
{: .omit}

<p markdown="1" class="center">“For the first shall be last, and the last, first.”</p>
{: .omit}

*This teaching was not intended for the use it has been given by those
who would find in me justification for the judgment of their brothers
and sisters. That which is called the sacred book of your Bible does, in
fact, contain many seeds of wisdom. However, these have often been
separated from their original contexts and woven into stories designed
to serve not the Holy Father, but the __conception__ of God the mind in
separation would long for.*

*I gave this teaching to those known as my disciples. Its meaning serves
as the theme of this present work, for when the mind is truly awakened
from the dream of separation and the soul is returned to its only
Reality as the Son of God, there comes then a new beginning. No longer
is there futile searching for what the world cannot offer or hope to
contain.*

*Abiding in that peace which forever passes understanding, the soul is at
rest. It neither desires the things of the world nor judges them. It
learns the sublime art of what has been called “waiting on the Lord.”
This merely means that the soul moves in accordance with the Father’s
will, and can no longer consider doing otherwise. The soul dons the
cloak of the servant.*

*The Way emerges for us: When the acknowledgment of your Reality as the
only begotten Son of God is accomplished and the Armageddon between this
Reality and the habit of useless dreams is ended, the journey to the
Kingdom is completed and the journey __within__ it begins. The whole of
Creation is reclaimed as __one’s own__, and the soul’s only desire is that
Creation be restored as a reflection of the holy thought of God, who is
but Love.*

*Love is a radiant splendor forever shining beyond all appearance, a
splendor held as a distant memory in the heart of all forms of Life, and
it is this that Life strains to rediscover. When this is accomplished,
the very purpose of Creation will be completed, and the things of Heaven
and Earth shall pass away, as mist before the rising sun.*

*In this work, I shall address the meaning of servantship, for here is
found the highest calling of the soul, as well as the final enactment
possible in the field of manifestation.*

*True servantship is not in any way possible while yet there lingers hope
for salvation in the things of the world, including those ideas of
salvation which cleverly conceal the fear that is ego; the dream of the
separate self that can gain, or lose.*

*I will clarify the true nature of the servant, as well as the qualities
of genuine service. We will journey through the field of obstacles which
peep the highest joy just beyond the grasp of the one who would join in
union with God.*

*Know this: Nothing ever imagined by the mind of man can bring the soul
such depth of peace, such breadth of fulfillment, such heights of
unspeakable joy as can servantship. Enlightenment, when fully realized,
gives birth to the servant as surely as does the flower burst forth from
the seed well planted and nurtured.*

*Contemplate deeply what is here being spoken, again and yet again, in
the quiet of solitude, for these words I have chosen deliberately.
Taking them deep into your heart will hasten your consummate awakening.*

*This work is given to assist those who will soon touch the heart of a
perfect Remembrance. It is a great truth that greater works than mine
shall you who serve Love bring forth into the world in these Last Days.*

*Herein is the introduction completed&hellip;*

After giving the introduction, He suggested I be patient because this
work would come into form at the appropriate time. He also asked that I
keep the little red notebook close at hand, and I agreed. I had no way
of knowing then that three years would pass before He would finish it!

The process of writing was actually quite simple. I dragged the notebook
with me wherever I went, lived my life, and waited. Sometimes, several
months would go by without so much as a mention of this work from Him.
At times He literally stopped in midsentence, only to pick it up later
as if there had been no interruption. Waking me at two or three in the
morning with that familiar little vibration in my heart continued to be
one of his apparently favorite times. Finally, I grew accustomed to the
fact that He might never finish it at all! I confess that my wife
occasionally enjoys telling friends how I threw the notebook across the
room when the words I was scribing pushed my buttons, or conveniently
left it on a friend’s table, “forgetting” what I had done with it.

In fact, when He dictated the final few pages and said “Amen,” it failed
to sink in that it was done. I got out of my chair to head to the
kitchen, suddenly stopped in my tracks, and muttered, “It’s done. No
more little red notebook!”

Alan Cohen, in his foreword to *The Jeshua Letters*, called Jeshua “a
masterful teacher.” Looking back, this one simple fact becomes
abundantly clear. *The Way of the Servant* is a link in an exquisite
tapestry being woven by this loving master, always dedicated to
awakening us all to the presence and reality of Love, beyond our fears
and hurts and angers and doubts.

*The Way of the Servant*, like a good painting, reveals its treasures to
you the longer you linger with it. It has pushed my deepest buttons,
showing me where my own ego games continue, requiring my attention. It
has become an everpresent reminder that He is with all of us always,
overflowing with the Love we are choosing to remember on this planet. We
offer it to you as it was offered to us. If you choose, it will become a
blessing on your journey, a constant companion righting your course
whenever, for a fleeting moment, you are tempted to be distracted by the
voice of the world that seems to have made a home in your mind. As this
gift from Jeshua has done for so many, may it also serve to turn your
ear to the gentle Voice that yet lives within us all, the Voice which
speaks only of Love, of what we are together, forever. Streams of joy!

*Jayem<br/>
Ubud, Bali<br/>
April 2006*
{: .omit}

