---
title: "WOH Lesson Ten - Question Two"
contents: "woh"
---

### Way of the Heart, Lesson Ten: Question Two

I recently saw a friend’s heart with my inner eye. And the
symbol was a beautiful Cross of Light. I would like you to elaborate on
the symbology of the cross.

---

### Answer

Again, as we have shared many times, the cross symbolizes this:
The vertical axis symbolizes the union of Creator and Created, of
eternity descending into Creation or into time. The horizontal axis
represents the extension in both directions; that is, that which
embraces all of time — the past, the future. The horizontal plane is the
plane of the Earth, the plane of space and time, the plane of created
manifestation. The vertical axis represents, also, the pathway of
ascending or turning your attention away from the horizontal axis, in
order to access the guidance of the Comforter, the Mind of God, Herself.
And to bring that Light, to bring that vision, to bring that Truth, down
to the Heart where it can then be extended as far as from the east to
the west — to join eternity with the things of time. And, thereby, to
*transform* what has appeared to be the imprisoning of space and time.

As you would look, then, upon the friend and see this cross, it means,
then, that this one has begun to awaken to that consciousness; that it’s
not about living unconsciously, whereby the things on the horizontal
plane dictate your reactions and your choices. But rather, it is to
quietly go within, to receive vision and guidance, and then to learn how
to *translate* that into the horizontal plane.

This cross is also the symbol of the Christed Consciousness, which is
exactly That Mind that is committed and dedicated, not to escaping
creation into some formless abyss, but rather, to access the Mind of God
the Love of God, and to *descend* it, to bring it down into the mind —
into the human mind, the human body — in order to extend it, to create
in a different way ... not a fearful-based way, not a survival-based
way, but a way based on revelation and vision and the willingness to
receive the perfectly unlimited Thoughts of God, and then to extend
them.

You can begin to look upon anyone in that way. Simply tune into their
heart, which is their core or their essential vibrational pattern. And
simply ask,

> Well, Holy Spirit, is the Cross of Light awakened within them? And if
> so, to what degree?

And you will find that you can come to see it that quickly. And then
you’ll know who to spend your energy with and who not to. Not out of
judgment, but out of recognition that you can’t put the Cross there
yourself. You can only learn to recognize where it has awakened in
others. And those are the beings you want to, shall we say, dance with
as brothers and sisters upon this plane. Does that make sense for you?

*Response*: Yes.

