---
title: "The Blessing of Forgiveness"
received: Unknown
fb:
  desc: "The offering of true forgiveness is a gift given to oneself."
  image:
  - "wom/ble.jpg"
toc:
- Question One
- Question Two
- Question Three
- Question Four
---

Now we begin.

And, indeed, greetings unto you, beloved holy friends. Indeed, greetings
to you, beloved and holy great Rays of Light shining eternally in the
mind of our Father, bringing forth that which is Love, bringing forth
that which is Light, bringing forth that which is Wisdom and Peace and
Simplicity &ndash; and Forgiveness.

For in Truth, the world waits upon your forgiveness. It waits to be
anointed by the Mind of Christ that would look upon all created things
and grant it forgiveness. For your world lives steeped in fear. Your
world is filled with many brothers and sisters that are plagued by a
deep sense of unworthiness and guilt. Having fallen asleep, they
continue to dream an illusory dream. But much like any dream, it holds
the power to enchant the mind and block the very cells of the body from
exuding only that which is real: Light. And Light is Love. And,
therefore, to begin this evening and to share this message with our many
friends, we would indeed speak of forgiveness.

Beloved friends, forgiveness requires a graciousness; and graciousness
is but the extension through form &ndash; through the body, through the
emotions, through your touch, through your smile, through the glimmer in
your eyes &ndash; of that which is the Grace *already* given unto *you*.

It is always wise, then, to remember that if you would know Grace, give
grace. And each moment, then, as you walk through your world, as you
would cry out unto me and to many of my friends,

> Teach me what my purpose is, what is my function? What is my unique and special role?

And your mind would teach you that it must be some form of service
outside of your own being. I say unto you, your purpose and your
function is the same as was, and is mine: To be that one through whom
the Grace of a loving God is given unto those who yet dream the vicious
and dark and awful dream of separation. For in that dream there cannot
be anything but a deep inner anguish. And one who dreams thus acts in
such a way that almost every thought and every action becomes a cry for
help and healing &ndash; a cry that falls on the deaf ears of the world,
for the world believes in judgment and not forgiveness, in condemnation
and not healing.

Therefore, know well the power that dwells within you, for you have
already awakened to your call. You have already begun to lift your eyes
up from the dream of separation, and have begun to behold a great Light
shining forever, that seems to shine forth from some place, from some
source so far removed from all that you’ve known and all that you think
you are. And yet the Light that you behold is *your* light, placed
within you by God himself from the moment you first began to dream your
own unique version of the dream of separation.

How, then, will you know that Light? Not by seeking it, but by allowing
it. Therefore, as you walk through this world, when you cry out
wondering what your purpose is, bring your attention back to the simple
fact that *you are here to bless the world through the Forgiveness of
Christ*. Look, therefore, gently upon all that you see. Learn to return
the mind, the emotions and, as long as it lasts, even the body, to
peace &ndash; that the graciousness of Christ can flow forth through you
unimpeded, unlimited, *shining in its joy*. And let that Light fall upon
whomever you see, whatever you see: a blade of grass, a leaf falling
from a tree, a wisp of cloud passing through the sky, a snowflake that
falls.  Bless these things, for they too have arisen from within *your*
Holy Mind. And they are pervaded by that self&ndash;same Light that
gives *you* your existence.

The world cries out for forgiveness, and the soul cries out for union
with God, and seeks in a thousand convoluted ways and technologies to
find a way to merge created and creator, beloved and lover. For, indeed,
you are the lovers of God, and in truth cannot help but be that. For God
does not create that which opposes Himself. Because you are a great Ray
of Light shining in that one mind, while you are the created, *you are
the lover of God*. And your peace and fulfillment will come to you fully
when you have retrained the mind to settle for *no other thought* than
that which expresses the joyful, heart&ndash;centered devotion to your
Creator &ndash; not as a stern master apart from you, but as the
presence of Love itself, that ignites the very creative process whereby
you have come into being. Not to suffer the things of the world, not to
dream the dream of separation &ndash; it was never necessary, it was
just a momentary choice &ndash; but, rather, to extend all that God
*is*.

Therefore, if you would know your freedom and peace, use each moment to
bring the attention of the mind back to the graciousness and the
blessing of forgiveness. For, as you forgive, you will learn that you
have already been forgiven. And as you bless the world, you will know
how blessed you truly are. And the day will come when you no longer fear
the unlimited blessing of your Father, for you will know that all things
are created for *you*, out of Love &ndash; that you never need to limit
yourself in any moment, within your consciousness, whatever world you
might be playing and dancing within.  Take, then, upon your shoulders my
cloak. Take upon your head my crown of Light.  For it is given unto you
to be the embodiment of all that Christ is.

And, in truth, because only Christ is the creation of God, it is the
only thing that you can be in Reality. Now that means that if there is
even one moment in your day when the thought in your mind would pull you
to the perception that you are *other* than what you are created to be,
it means that you, in that moment, have chosen to become identified with
pure and utter insanity. Hm! I have said often that there is a choice
between but two emotions, Love and fear. And two other words that could
be used would be sanity and insanity. There is no gray area. You’re
either in one or the other. You might fool yourself and say,

> Well, I’m really moving toward Love, but I have to get through these certain things first
> and then I might get there.

You are either home, or you’re away from home. You are either One with
God, or you are dreaming the dream of separation. One brings the reality
of Peace, one brings what seems to be insane to this upside&ndash;down
world of yours: the recognition that you are as you’re created to be.
And in *this* moment you hold all power under Heaven and Earth to
*choose* for peace. To *extend* only love. To *forgive* instead of
judge. To be *open* instead of contracted.

The way, then, is easy and without effort. It requires only that you
make a deliberate choice: to surrender the perceptions and ideas you’ve
ever held about anyone or anything (including yourself) that is anything
other than the preciousness of the Reality of Christ. And to allow the
Holy Spirit, then, to bring forth those circumstances that can show you
where you had once failed and chosen insanity, so that you can simply
correct it.

And that is why, as you dance through your many incarnations, you keep
bumping into the same folks. And the energies that each soul presents to
you will continue to be presented ad nauseum until you have embraced
that energy and owned it within your own being; and then through the
reflection or the mirror of forgiving that energy, you begin the process
of dismantling or dissolving that energy in your own being. For they are
one and the same. You have never truly looked upon another at all. Your
eyes would show you bodies that seem not to reside in the same place
that your body does, but that’s an illusion, because *you* don’t have a
body. There are *bodies*, but *you* do not have one. You do not dwell
within it; it dwells within the holy expansiveness of the One Mind, the
One Mind that is incarnate upon your earth. Forgiveness is the bridge to
healing.

Two thousand years ago, as you understand time, I came with a very
simple message.  And the message *was* the message of forgiveness. I
have come yet again in many ways giving the same simple technology, *for
it alone works*. And yet the mind would have you believe that you must
constantly make it more difficult.

> Surely there is something else to acquire, some great power, some great mystical experience. If
> only I could get all my outer affairs in order, then I’ll remember to forgive the world because
> I’ll be comfortable.

Rest assured that what you want to see reflected in the world around you
is influenced by &ndash; is an extension of &ndash; the quality of
awareness that you allow within your consciousness, moment to moment.
And if you seem, then, to know struggle, there is some corner yet
remaining that has not been touched by your own forgiveness.  Now, are
you going to be able to search out that corner? Many of you might try.

But is it not easier to simply recognize that the Holy Spirit has
*already created* the exact circumstances that you need to awaken?
Therefore, if you would seek your path, open your eyes. Notice the place
where you seem to be, physically upon this earth. Notice who you seem to
be with. Take a very deep breath, and remember that all things are
perfect, that that is your golden doorway, your eye of the needle. And
if you would make the choice to simply be the Presence of Christ and
extend the gracious blessing of forgiveness, you will feel your
restlessness begin to dissolve.

And as it dissolves in the depths of your beingness, through your
deliberate choice to use the power of your mind ( which is all that you
have)  to extend forgiveness and thereby the dissolve patterns of
perception within the depth of your mind, you will then come to see the
world around you differently. And miracle&ndash;mindedness begins more
and more to be that which carries you through this life. You meet just
the right person. You get just the perfect job. And all of the rest. It
rains when you want it to rain, and it’s sunny when you want it to be
sunny. And you will be mystified by it all.

In the end, *when the mind is completely purified* &ndash; which simply
means that it’s been corrected from any conflict between Love and fear,
forgiveness and judgment &ndash; when the mind is completely purified
you will know that you are *unlimited forever*. You will know that, if
you are seemingly in the bodily experience &ndash; whether you’re
washing the dishes or taking out the garbage, whatever you’re
doing &ndash; you will know that you, as Christ incarnate, have
deliberately chosen to allow your being this experience as yet another
opportunity to bless the world with the forgiveness that it cries out
for. And if the body seems to dissolve in light and you are no longer
seen by other bodies in space and time, you will know that that, too, is
the perfect choice of freedom.

Imagine, then &hellip; imagine &hellip; walking through this life you
are living, in a world that seems to have forgotten the Reality of God,
and feeling, from the crown of the head to the tips of the toes, not one
trace of contraction or fear. Imagine the cells of the body feeling as
spacious as the heavens. Imagine the Peace that passes all understanding
to be pervading every organ of the body. A gentle smile upon the lips,
barely perceptible to others. A gentleness in the area of the heart. A
sense of bodily relaxation from what you call the solar plexus to the
base of the spine. The mind calm and clear, missing nothing, yet holding
onto nothing. Imagine being compelled by nothing, and yet not having a
trace of judgment about anything arise.

Imagine walking through this life in which *nothing is unacceptable to
you*, because you are so busy blessing the world with the Forgiveness of
Christ, recognizing that the dream is a dream is a dream is a dream. And
dreams hold *no effect* upon the dreamer when the dreamer awakens.
Imagine living this life in Perfect Peace.

Is it a difficult road? No. It requires, first and foremost, the
willingness to *completely embrace yourself as you are*. Even as you
perceive yourself to be, though you may be perceiving
insanely &ndash; you are indeed doing so if you think there’s anything
amiss; but that’s okay &ndash; first embrace the dream, and love
*yourself*. Love yourself for being right where you are, *as you are*.
For there is a simple law of metaphysics, as you know this, and it is
this: it is literally and always impossible to transcend and heal what
is not fully embraced. And to embrace something means to *love* it to
death.

Therefore, when you go through your day, ask yourself this at the end of
each day for the next seven days:

> How many times in this one 24&ndash;hour period did I stop what I was doing and love myself
> wholly? &hellip; Well, I would have gotten around to it more than once, but I was awfully busy.

Hm. No. You were deluded. And there is a big difference. You were in
insanity whenever you contracted away from love of Self. So that’s the
first exercise we would offer you this evening: for the next seven days,
before you fall asleep at night, count how many times in that day you
truly and wholly loved *yourself*.

Now, as we pause here then, what we are viewing from our level, our
perspective &ndash; that has nothing at all to do with bodies; so you
see, you can’t really hide, there’s no such thing as
privacy &ndash; what we are seeing is many minds contracting with guilt
at the recognition that more often than not this day they’ve actually
*loathed* themselves. They found something to judge themselves for.

> I’m too tall, I’m too short, I’m too fat, I’m too thin. I don’t speak well enough, I don’t
> have enough money,

and on and on and on and on goes the list. Do you know that list? That
list was made by a completely insane mind &ndash; and in Reality the
list does not exist.

So, remember, then, to pay attention if you notice yourself being in
judgment of yourself, that is the opposite of Love. So look upon the
contraction in the mind that goes,

> Oh my God, I didn’t think about that once today: loving myself.

Love yourself *right there and then &ndash; now*! And you’ve loved
yourself. And then you can go to sleep, peacefully. Does that make sense
to you?

I’ve said many times that the way is easy and without effort &ndash; for
what comes of effort is of your world, and not of the Kingdom. I’ve said
to you the world is diametrically opposed to the Truth of the Kingdom.
The world is just the *exact opposite* of all that the Kingdom is. And
if you’re tightening the cells of the body and tightening the
mind &ndash; fueled by fear and trying to make things happen, and
they’re not happening &ndash; that’s a clear sign that somewhere you’ve
forgotten to rest in the graciousness of self&ndash;love.
Self&ndash;love opens the door to the spaciousness whereby you remember
that *you are One with all minds everywhere.*

There is no lack. And those beings who are perfect for you at your stage
of the journey will be sent to you, if you will but welcome them before
they arrive. Hm. Interesting thought, isn’t it? Your world will teach
you: what’s the point of welcoming somebody until they’ve rung the
doorbell? Why not welcome them before you ever see them with your
physical eyes? Can you imagine what would happen if you awakened in the
morning, took five minutes to forgive the world and bless the world and
love yourself, and then *welcomed* everyone who was going to come into
your experience that day as an angel bringing you the opportunity to
bless the world with forgiveness.  You see, your peace would walk ahead
of you. It would enter a room before your body even gets there. And
before anything is said and done, you will have already created the
space large enough to hold *whatever* comes into your experience. You
will have *embraced* what must be embraced, and thereby the pathway to
transcendence is set before you.

Hm! Now is this all getting too complicated?

Remember this: when the mind seems stymied by what is said, there are
actually two things going on. First of all, the attempt is to stop the
mind. Only when the mind is stopped can space come to it. If you feel
blocked in trying to grasp what is being shared at all, remember that
that sense of being blocked is nothing more than an old, insane pattern.
It is the culprit. If you notice that you’re blocked, not quite putting
the pieces together, simply stop and stop striving to do so. For the
Soul hears the Truth.  And when we come in this manner, or in many
different manners, to speak with you, we come not to speak to your
earthly mind, we come not to speak to the body and your emotional field.
We come to speak directly to the essence of your Soul, which already
knows the truth, which *is* the Truth, and is, in fact, the *very source
from which these words are coming*.

Hm&hellip; By way of levity, if that is permitted&hellip;

&hellip; I’m never quite sure when I look at your world whether it is or whether it isn’t!

How many times in each day do *you* vacillate? You know the pattern of
laughing at the foibles of others, but taking your own very seriously?

You see, all that I do in this work with this my beloved brother, is
this: I abide in a place and in a dimension where nothing is hidden,
where all minds reside right where I am. And when anyone asks a question
or even thinks a thought and doesn’t speak it through the body, I merely
am like one in what you call your racetracks &ndash; imagine me with a
little green visor on the head &ndash; and when one comes and says,
“Well, I wonder if I should bet on this one or this one, what is this
truth or that truth?” I go, “Just a minute.” And I close down the window
with the little bars on it, and I race out the back door, and I run
behind and I sneak up behind you and I examine your heart from behind,
and I see what is written there, and I go, “Oh, yes, okay.” And then I
race back and come back, and open up the window, and I give you the
answer!

Now, many of you &ndash; it’s rather an easy process because, you see, I
keep records, and many of you ask the same things over and over.

Hm. But rest assured, and understand this well: when I once said “Of
myself I do nothing” &ndash; I meant it. My Father does these things
through me. That requires the willingness to learn how to be *empty of
self* with every breath. So those that would see me as someone filled
with all of this great cosmic wisdom, please see me differently. I am
empty and spacious, resting in quiet adoration and devotion of all that
my Father is, witnessing *nothing but* miracles, and that which extends
and radiates the Love of God through all Creation. And if in *your* mind
you see it not, it only means that you have not yet been willing to
train the mind to teach only Love; to give up all of your own ideas,
moment to moment, breath to breath.

I am nothing special. I am merely *your equal*, your brother and your
friend &ndash; created in the very same moment you were, with all the
same attributes, all the same potential, all the same reality. And I
marvel, just as you will when you truly ponder this, I marvel
becausethroughout the expanse of my existence &ndash; which has been
since before the beginning of time, just as yours &ndash; I have never
been able to fathom the moment of my creation. Think about that one. Do
you know the moment when you began? No.  And you’ll never find it. And
that means there is, indeed, an unfathomable mystery that I have called
Abba that is present at a place within me that is deeper than can ever
be known, no matter how much the mind becomes enlightened. Knowing that,
there can only be humility, devotion, appreciation, love. There can only
be the fulfillment of the truly only meaningful relationship that you
can ever have: Relationship with your Creator. For all of the rest of
your relationships are merely reflections of you abiding with an aspect
of yourself. And the only way *that* relationship can reflect Holiness
is from the spillover from your devotion, and the purity of your
relationship with your Creator. Does that make sense to you?

Creation is grand. How could you ever comprehend it all? You can’t. You
can *only allow it* through your beingness without fear. For fear is a
contraction, which is the opposite of Love. And when you know fear you
are in the world and not in the Kingdom.

And so, beloved friends, I’ve revealed to you something about the nature
of my own being. I am not a great master, as many would have me be,
wanting to project onto me all manner of skills and abilities and powers
because they are afraid of embracing these things for themselves. And
*projection,* what you have tried to regurgitate out of your soul and
get rid of, is what *makes your perceptions*. So if those that would
come into a temple to worship me as the savior of the world would only
stop and understand the truth that *projection makes perception*, they
would see that they are *literally creating* the savior they believe
must be there out of the denial of who they are.

That is why I have often said to those of you who would choose to build
an altar, to have a room of prayer, whatever you call it: why do you
have all of these pictures of saints and masters from all over the
world? Where is your picture? Rest assured, try that for one hour. Get a
picture of yourself and treat it like you would &ndash; pay homage to it
like you would &ndash; a picture of your favorite master. Place it upon
your altar and light your candles and your incense, sprinkle it with
holy water, whatever you want to do, whatever your rituals are; and then
do nothing but relax and contemplate your own image. And ask yourself
this one question: From where has that being come?  Can you see how that
would be very opposite of what the world teaches you to do?

I’m not speaking here of the danger &ndash; and there is a
danger &ndash; of slipping into an egoic identification of yourself as
being so great and regal and special, and everybody else a peon. That’s
not what we’re talking about, but to move through the temptation to let
the ego grasp the insight that you are as God created you to be. For
while you abide in space and time, vigilance and discipline are
absolutely required. And the more you awaken, the more you will need
them.

In my day and age we spoke often of the temptation of Satan. The story
that many of you know of my forty days and nights in the desert, in
which Satan himself came to tempt me, is a symbol, of course, that shows
that the more Power and Light shines through you, the ego &ndash; the
egoic energy that pervades your creation at this dimension, to a lesser
degree other dimensions or planes &ndash; will *always* try to find a
home in your mind &hellip; *always*. Therefore, the more your Light
shines, the more what is called these little specks of darkness want to
rush in and clog up your drains. Hm. Never become lazy. Never become
satisfied. Keep wanting more and more of God, selfishly *demand it*, and
learn to be vigilant over what thoughts you are allowing into the mind.
And be very careful. For, as you awaken, and suddenly you have a vicious
and evil thought, the temptation is,

> Oh, my God, I’ve blown it!

That is a judgment, and that is the opposite of Love. And only Love can
heal. You simply notice the thought, go,

> Ha, yes, I’ve had those before.

Self&ndash;love. Love alone heals the mind. No other technology will
work.

Forgiveness, self&ndash;love, the recognition that no one comes into
your sphere by accident, and that in Reality each is an aspect of your
own being, bringing treasures of gold and frankincense and myrrh, coming
to see if you will receive those treasures and thereby recognize that
each day is the Birth of Christ within you accomplished. Each time you
accept those gifts, and the way you register your acceptance of their
gifts &ndash; that do indeed come in some rather interesting
packages! &ndash; the way you recognize it or pay recognition to it is
through your willingness to return to your reality, your purpose and
function, and to bless that being, that gift&ndash;bringer, with the
Forgiveness of Christ.

And that forgiveness is not from a mind that thinks it is above the
other, but recognizes not just the commonality but the *self&ndash;same
identity*. Do you see the difference? It is very important.

> Well, I’ll forgive you, you poor simple creature.

No.

> I forgive you and bless you because you are who I am, and in Reality there is only one
> of us present, and together we have the power to bring Heaven to Earth through our
> holiness &ndash; now!

Somebody’s got to extend it to the other aspect of themselves. Why not
you? What are *you* waiting for?

> If only my mother would forgive me, if only my father would forgive me, and oh gosh that
> first wife I had and then the fourth husband, oh my goodness. If I could just get things
> straight with them, then I would get on with being Christ.

So. The pause that was just created seemed to be in the midst of a
thought or a direction, and your second exercise is this: Abide at peace
and become your own conduit for completing the direction or momentum of
the thought that was given just before the pause. Does that make sense
to you all? If you will give yourself to that exercise, not just once
but often, and in a relaxed mode, you will find that the process takes
you to deeper and deeper levels. And those of you that sincerely engage
in that process will embark on a series of what you call insights or
revelation. And it will assist in refining the deep energies of your own
mind. So would you be willing to do that?

We will see. Remember, there is no privacy!

And, so, it will be appropriate to spend a short time and there will be
questions asked by those who are seemingly seated here with bodies.

Therefore, in conclusion of that which has been shared with you this
hour, remember: forgiveness, self&ndash;love, accepting the *perfection*
of each moment in which you discover yourself &ndash; for because you
have already asked for healing and awakening, the Holy Spirit already
goes before you, setting straight your path. Remember, if you knew how
to set your path straight, you would have been done a long time ago! So
accept the fact that what is occurring is part of a pathway being set
before you by an Intelligence or Wisdom that knows far better than your
thinking mind how to find the way home.  And the more you surrender to
each moment’s perfection, the more you discover that the eye of the
needle is *always* before you, and it’s actually a royal highway that
carries you to peace.

And so, with that, if you would prepare the technology with the buttons
and all of that, we can continue.

---

## Question One

[*Question*](/wom/questions/bleq1/): Jeshua, as we enter this very
profound time of year, is there anything that you would recommend that
we hold in our hearts?
{: .omit}

---

## Question Two

[*Question*](/wom/questions/bleq2/): In regard to the land we call
Shanti Christo, there are many friends coming to this area to
participate, and many of us have in our hearts the desire to live more
closely to each other, in sharing our growth processes, our loving each
other, our understanding of your teachings, and so on. There seem to be
many unanswered questions and desires of people who want to come
together more closely, quickly, and I wondered if you would address
this?
{: .omit}

---

## Question Three

[*Question*](/wom/questions/bleq3/): Jeshua, I’m reminded of our
conversation about co&ndash;creating Christs a few months ago, and I
wonder if you would extend that conversation somewhat tonight?
{: .omit}

---

## Question Four

[*Question*](/wom/questions/bleq4/): Okay, I’m wanting to ask about this
12/12 stuff. So I’ve already listened to all these other questions, you
see, and then I decide what’s the point of asking any questions? The
answer is already given.
{: .omit}

---

Yet another timely question. So, how are you all doing?

These (what you call) gatherings of the family will now commence; and
will grow.  And remember &ndash;&ndash; with patience, without doubt,
trusting and allowing the perfect unfoldment. And if you think it’s not
unfolding perfectly, don’t look outside yourself &ndash;&ndash; go back
to the question:

> Did I love myself today? How many times did I express forgiveness to the world? Am I,
> pardon the vernacular, cleaning up my own act?

Because remember, this world is nothing more than a grand act.

So, with that, we can bring this time to a close. For what was needed to
be shared has been shared; and the questions asked are the questions
also, not necessarily the same words but the same essence, that are
carried in many of your brothers and sisters. And, therefore, accept my
blessings as my equal. Please take the cloak from my shoulders and the
crown from my head, and adorn yourself. And, then, go and do likewise
for your brother and your sister.

Be you therefore at peace in this moment and always. Be you therefore
the Light that lights this world in simplicity and grace and a gentle
smile. Be you therefore awakened in this moment to the Truth of your
only Reality. Be you therefore of good courage, for I have overcome the
world, and in that moment so did you. If it is completed in me, it must
be completed in you because there is only One of us here. Can you, then,
accept that you’ve already faced Crucifixion? You don’t have to repeat
the process.  Can you accept that the Ascension is already done? Can you
be &ndash;&ndash; will you be–the embodiment of the Truth that sets all
things free? Can there be any other use of time?

Blessings then be upon the One who shines brightly forever in the Mind
of God, who has created us we know not when or how. And that truth is
inescapable.

My love to each and every one of you, for in you I see the reflection of
myself and know the Grandeur and the Radiance and Beauty and Love that
my Father is. And I praise my Father without ceasing.

Amen.

