---
title: Death and Earth Changes
toc:
- Question One
- Question Two
- Question Three
- Question Four
- Question Five
- Question Six
- Question Seven
- Question Eight
- Question Nine
- Question Ten
fb:
  desc: "Way of Mastery: The Early Years - Death and Earth Changes"
---

Now, we begin.

And indeed, greetings unto you, beloved and holy friends. I come forth
to abide with you from a place that is not apart from where you are. I
come forth to abide with you because I love you. I come forth to abide
with you because you are already all that I am and all that I could
possibly represent to the mind of mankind. I come forth as a promise
kept that I am, indeed, with you always. I come forward because the time
comes quickly. And I come forth to gather my friends to myself who have
already chosen to join with me in this age, to bring forth that of the
Christed Consciousness from the depth of their *own* being; to walk this
earth *as* the arisen Christ; to be that one through whom the Love of
God is extended unto the plants and to the animals, and to every brother
and sister that walks with you and yet carries the veil of fear; that
walks the light, the temple of their heart. I come forth because I am
asked to come forth of my Father.

I am in charge of the Atonement. That is, I am in charge of the process
whereby this planet, this human consciousness, this third-dimensional
realm, will begin to move toward a transition of vibrational frequency.
Hm? Therefore, I come forth to any mind that prepares a place for me by
choosing to relinquish the burden of trying to be conformed to a thought
system, to a way of life that does not work — a way of life and a
thought system that must be reversed completely, so that the heart leads
and the mind follows; so vision is the guide, and the body is used only
to bring forth into manifest form that seed of holy vision which the
Father would place within you.

I come forth because we are one. I come forth because we are friends. I
come forth *for the simple joy* of abiding with *you*, the Holy Children
of God. For from the beginning, which is before space and time, already
were we together as One Mind. And in an ancient moment, a useless dream
was dreamt, a dream of forgetting, a dream of separation. But even in
that moment, already did your Creator, the one that I have called Abba,
Father, set the bridge in place that would one day become activated in
the depth of your soul, by which you would come from the world of your
making into the truth of the Kingdom &hellip; that the very words I once
explained to the world would become *your* words, that would become
*your* truth, *your* reality, your *remembrance* &hellip; that after all
dreams have been dreamt and the soul chooses to cross the bridge, it
rests and reclines in the simple truth that *I and my Father are one*.
And we create together only the good, the holy, and the beautiful.

Therefore, indeed, beloved friends, it is an honor and a joy to abide
with you, to co-create with you, to walk with you on the way that you’ve
chosen. For it is only through the innocence of a perfectly free will
that the soul can return to the Kingdom. Love does not need to strive,
Love does not need to reach out and hold onto, Love does not need to
persuade. It merely abides in its own nature, waiting for the seeker
of reality to turn from the roar and din of the world, in which peace
cannot be found, in which fulfillment is forever lacking, and begins to
hear the crystal-clear but very quiet song of the Creator, whispering
eternally,

> *Beloved child, I love you. Come, remember me, and let us be as One.*

So, with all of that by way of greeting, I give thanks unto you, each of
you, for your willingness to hear the call and to answer it, to step
upon the bridge and allow its light, its intelligence — for the bridge
is but the Holy Spirit, the link back to the Mind of God — to guide you
in all things. And as you learn not to hear the thoughts born of the
world, but to hear the whispers of Spirit that arise from a quiet mind
and a peaceful heart and a decision to trust the voice for Spirit, you
cannot fail but to complete this journey. The end, therefore, is
certain, and each of you in your own way — and indeed, all of you
collectively — are witnessing and experiencing within yourselves and in
your relationships, the manner in which the Father, God, is calling
creation back to Herself.

Therefore, *rejoice* with one another. *Be glad* with one another.
*Celebrate* one another. *Love you*, one another. For the end was
written in the stars before the stars were birthed. And that time comes
quickly. For long have I waited this age to be upon this plane, when
enough momentum has been created in the consciousness of mankind so that
a wave of awakening can no longer be shut out, that a wave of awakening
can no longer be resisted, that a wave of awakening will melt away all
fear &hellip; and once again the Kingdom of Heaven will be spread across
the face of this Earth. But unlike the time when Man recognized it not,
mankind *will know* that *the truth is true, always — *and that what
is real cannot be threatened, and *only* what is real exists.

There indeed, will come a moment when all dreams of fear are forgotten,
when all strife and enmity between brothers and sisters is dissolved as
but an echo of a thought — thought so long ago that it’s hardly even
imaginable. The Earth will radiate the light of Truth yet again, as she,
too, prepares to make her transition, her ascension, her vibrational
change; and the waters of this planet will run clearly, and the skies
will radiate with colors that have not yet been seen by human eyes.
There will be a harmony between all species and mankind. And the way of
the world will be forgotten. And the way of peace restored. And the
Earth will provide all that mankind could possibly need, simply by the
asking.

And in that day and hour when all things have been set in place and the
Atonement, the correction, has occurred, for a brief moment that state
will be experienced. And then \[snaps fingers\] this whole plane of
density will simply dissolve from view. Not gone, but *translated* into
an entirely new domain.

There are many — indeed, we would say unto you that everyone living on
your planet at this time is being pressed to make the decision: Are you
going to stay and go for the ride? Or are you going to have to move to a
different neighborhood? Everyone is being confronted by that decision,
from the oldest to the youngest, even the brand-new, newborn child. By
the way, many of those that are being new born have already made the
decision, and that’s why they’re being birthed — to assist in setting
the frequency. Many of the children being birthed in the world now are
already light years ahead of where humanity has been stuck for a while.
And they bring a new frequency of consciousness; they bring a new sense
of unlimitedness. And they will not settle for the limited fear-based
ideas that have created the world into which you were birthed.

Each and every one has a role to play, a part that has been assigned. It
has been with you since the moment your soul was birthed; and the hour
and the day comes when each must turn within and finally *allow* that
part to flower and be played through them. And in whatever way that you
come to it, you will understand the words that I spoke, seemingly so
long ago, when I was confronted with the finality of my drama, the
finality of my own teaching — what some would the Crucifixion (I’ve
never desired to emphasize *that* part of it; that was just
stepping-stones to the Resurrection.) And those words are simply this:
Nevertheless, not my will, not the will of the separate fearful ego, but
Thine be done — the will of the One Mind *that is but Love*. And when
Love guides the way, miracles sprout before you. And not one obstacle is
left in front of you; it dissolves before you reach it.

So &hellip; here you are. In a little building in what you call your Santa
Fe, gathering with brothers and sisters that you have known across space
and time, because you’ve all answered the same call and are beginning to
be called into a resonance that accelerates the growth of all of you.
Just as many are being called together through different lineages,
through different teachers — orchestrated, if you will, to gather
together in their own ways, to learn the lessons they yet need to learn,
to discover their way of service to the planet, to humanity, to the
Kosmos, to the Heart of Christ and to the Creator. *An ancient dream
begins now to end*. The circle is nearly completed, and the pendulum
returns all things to the pristine and innocent truth that all things
are but the extension of the radiance of God’s presence. And fear can
have no place in a mind that has awakened to the reality of God.

And what you are doing here, *even in this evening*, is a part of that
very process. I’ve said many times that I come to call my friends to
myself. Imagine that all of you have been given a script very, very long
ago. And part of the script said that the day would arise when you would
reconnect with an old friend — the one the world has called Jesus. And
that through that connection a vibration would be created that would
accelerate the fulfillment of your own part, your own unique role to
play, the stepping into the fullness of *your* Christed nature — just as
once, as a man, I decided to take my Father’s word at face value and
stepped into my own Christed nature.

And while many beings sit before their televisions in this town of yours
tonight and many more sit in what you call the rooms for
unconsciousness, putting the liquid in the body (the bars), while many
seek a lover to keep them warm through the night, the night never lasts
forever. *You* have chosen to come *here* because you have heard an
invitation for this one evening, and you have accepted. Therefore,
celebrate and rejoice, for the day is at hand and there is no greater
joy than the re-communion of ancient friends who, deep within
themselves, *know* that *the time is now*. The dance has begun, the
music has started &hellip; Hmmm &hellip; And the whole of creation *will come*
to this party.

---

## Question One

[*Question*](/wom/questions/dthq1/) So. We want, then, in this evening
to speak specifically to certain questions that have been generated, for
they hold a purpose in helping to extend and to clarify a simple message
about this time frame, about certain changes, about certain things that
are now occurring within your governments, upon your planet, as this
Armageddon boils to a crescendo in which all souls are being asked,
{: .omit}

> *Well, are you going to join the dance, or are you going to have to
> leave the neighborhood?*
{: .omit}

That is not a judgment, it is an *offering* being made to the soul of
everyone: Use time constructively, you can heal your heart, you can
practice forgiveness, you can awaken as Christ. You’re going to have to,
because the planet is doing the same thing; and if you don’t come with
her you won’t be able to handle her light and her frequency, and you’ll
need to move to a different neighborhood. That’s all. No judgment, no
fear, no being struck dead by God — only a simple offering. You can
awaken now, or you can awaken somewhere else, later. There have been far
too many “laters”.
{: .omit}

So. We believe, then, that you have questions.
{: .omit}

Well, Jeshua, it’s not terribly fair for you to answer the questions
before I pose them.
{: .omit}

It’s just a simple mistake that we occasionally make.
{: .omit}

There seems to be a polarization going on now between people who are
answering the call and people who would remain in fear. And those things
look like wars and fights and racial tension. Is this part of that
process?
{: .omit}

---

## Question Two

[*Question*](/wom/questions/dthq2/) Yes, thank you. But everything
you’ve said tonight can be taken either physically or metaphorically. Is
this a physical change that will occur on the planet, or is this a
metaphorical change and the planet itself remain unscathed?
{: .omit}

---

## Question Three

[*Question*](/wom/questions/dthq3/) Then the role of Shanti Christo must
also be clear in this process. Is it a beacon?
{: .omit}

---

## Question Four

[*Question*](/wom/questions/dthq4/) Are we going to experience a period
of three days of darkness during this change upon the earth?
{: .omit}

---

## Question Five

[*Question*](/wom/questions/dthq5/) Is there truly any difference
between entities that describe themselves as Germaine, Jeshua, Michael,
and who would bring their message through an individual? Is there really
any difference among the messengers?
{: .omit}

---

## Question Six

[*Question*](/wom/questions/dthq6/) I’d like to discuss with you,
pursuant to the book that we’re working on, *The Way Through Death*, you
brought to our attention this past December that there were many
individuals who died in the explosion in Oklahoma City who were at that
time unaware of their death situation.  They were somehow hung up in
that moment of time of the explosion, unable to extricate themselves
from the collapsed building. We’ve all heard stories of ghosts still
inhabiting the locations of their death.  Why is this so, if what
Emmanuel says, that death is “like taking off a tight shoe” is true?
{: .omit}

---

## Question Seven

[*Question*](/wom/questions/dthq7/) So, from what you’re saying then,
there is no set sequence that occurs at that moment called death. So a
lot of people report on going through the tunnel and you’re there
and&hellip;
{: .omit}

---

## Question Eight

[*Question*](/wom/questions/dthq8/) Is God self-aware, or is it simply a
benign metaphysical force?
{: .omit}

---

## Question Nine

[*Question*](/wom/questions/dthq9/) Is there a force outside of God?
{: .omit}

---

## Question Ten

[*Question*](/wom/questions/dthq10/) Getting back to Shanti Christo,
could you give us an idea when this will materialize?
{: .omit}


