---
title: "The Divine Feminine"
---

Now, we may begin.

And indeed, it is with great joy and also with honor that I come forth
in this hour to share with you, to abide with you, to remind you of all
that is true within you. I come forth to abide with you on this very
special occasion to speak of the heart of that which is so-called *the
goddess*, to speak of the heart of that which is called *Christ*, to
speak of the heart of that which is called *Divine Mother*, to speak of
the heart of that which is called *Abba*, Father.

I come forth, then, in this auspicious hour as you abide together in a
place that speaks of the heart through the gentleness of the waves,
through the vibration that is felt on the breath of the wind, through
the sweetness that pervades the air and the many beautiful flowers. I
come forth to abide with you, as you have chosen to come together as
seemingly a small group of women upon a tiny speck of dust hurtling
itself through space, seemingly so separated from all of life.

And yet I say unto you: You have not come together by accident. You
*have* come together because you have well recognized that there is a
place within each and every one of you, a certain quality of vibration,
a certain aspect of the soul itself that you share in common. Well does
it transcend the physicality of the body that you would know as *woman*.
And yet it is a vibration that is shared through all those who are
currently choosing to *in*carnate—which simply means to bring into
expressed form—to incarnate in the very particular and specific
vibrations of the feminine body. And to embody the feminine body is
indeed to participate in a certain strand or vibration of consciousness
that has its own unique features.

Again, we speak here not of the body itself, for the body is merely the
effect of a choice that the soul has made to *embody* a certain
frequency of the soul. That frequency can be awakened, what you might
called tapped into. It can be tapped into by those choosing the
frequency or the strand of consciousness that brings forth the male
body. But it is much more easily accessed, it is much more constant for
those who have chosen in this incarnation to manifest as woman.

Why, then, is this important? For there is a dawning of a New Age in
which a certain frequency begins to be again primary as it once was upon
the earth plane itself. We’re not speaking here of right or wrong, good
or bad. We’re not here to evoke your beliefs that you have been the
victim of some trauma that is causing imbalance on the planet at all.
For the world you see is the world of a dream. You, then, have chosen to
participate within that dream. And you have chosen to come forth within
your own particular culture, your own particular timeframe—in the form
of ‘woman’— to present yourself with the unique challenge of *overcoming
an ancient perception* which currently pervades human consciousness—and
that perception is merely that it is the masculine strand that holds the
highest value, that must be placed in a role of primacy for
decision-making, for running governments and businesses, even for
running what is called the household.

And have you not come forth to discover that the power of the Divine
Mother, the power of Aba, the power of the Christ, the power of the
Goddess—these are just various names for the same thing—is indeed
present in its fullness within the strand held deeply within the soul
that expresses itself right down to the cells of the body in *the image
of woman*.

Beloved friends, I have spoken before, and I will speak again, that for
Christ to truly be birthed into the world, woman—the collectivity of
women—will need to step forth and declare *their commitment* to again
birthing forth the Divine Mother, the Christ &hellip; to embodying that
frequency, and not standing back in the shadows, but stepping forward
with boldness and with power to *reclaim* what appears to be lost, to
manifest and demonstrate that which is indeed present in *all beings*,
whether they be of male or female form.

The time is at hand. The thought that I’ve just shared with you has
already been sent out upon the cosmic air waves, so to speak, to all who
are currently embodied in feminine form. It is indeed time to begin to
create a more noticeable expression of the joining together of womanhood
that expresses, and that is devoted to, and holds sacred the frequency
of the Divine Mother, the frequency of compassion, the frequencies of
service that truly impacts the planet through the extension of love,
through the capacity to *feel deepl*y, through the willingness to trust
the wisdom of the heart, to trust the wisdom of feeling over the
supremacy of *mere* logic or rationality.

Therefore, beloved friends, look around at the seemingly small group
gathered in a location that represents a reflection of a time when
mankind, when humankind, lived in harmony with all of the earth, the
water and the clouds and the creatures thereof, and did not sense any
separation between self and other, between dolphin and woman, between
cloud and man. When there was a recognition that play and that laughter
and that the growing of flowers, the giving of gifts, the singing of
songs and the making of music, held supremacy over the organization of
armies, the creation of corporations through which the consciousness
that has forgotten the feminine seeks to find *dominion* over the world
and over the earth.

Look, then, around your seemingly small circle, for each of you has
chosen as an infinite soul to choose *this* timeframe, to choose *this*
incarnation to make a decision: to take on the embodiment of the
feminine form and yet not to succumb to the vibrational pattern of what
you call the patriarchy. Nothing negative here about it and you’ll need
to let that go through forgiveness. But simply to recognize that a
neutral pair of energies has been imbalanced for a while and that a
certain segment of the dream has played itself out. And that is all. No
reason to make a judgment.

Is it not time, then, for each and every one of you to truly take
*ownership of your womanhood* by taking *ownership of your divinity*? Is
it not time to bring forth your power by creating a matrix through which
women can be attracted to join with you in increasing numbers? All of
them dedicated to, shall we say, no longer succumbing, no longer walking
next to the patriarchal consciousness, whether it shows up in a male
body or female body—but rather to begin to find ways to creatively
express what you know to be true: Life is sacred; war has never brought
peace; there is no need for *dominion* over the earth, but there is
every need to live in *harmony* with the earth as though the human body
and the blade of grass are one thing and *each* needs to be wholly
respected. Is it not time to recognize that every child upon your planet
cries out to be embraced by the Divine Mother, not the patriarchal
mindset that would teach fear and the need for dominion? Is it not time,
beloved friends, to *arise and truly incarnate* creatively, beautifully,
playfully, powerfully that which the Divine Mother is?

Now, in truth, the Divine Mother and the Christed consciousness are one
and the same, for only where wholeness has been decided for within the
depth of your own heart and mind can you truly realize who Christ is and
what the Divine Mother represents.

It *is* time, beloved friends, for *women* to begin to express awakened
consciousness by assuming the position of *authority* upon the planet.
Could that be done? Oh yes. Rest assured that if fifty million of your
women went to your capitol and simply sat down and said,

> I’m sorry. We will no longer allow any legislation that supports the
> instruments of war,

you would quickly be joined by another fifty million. Many of them
*would be male in form* who would say,

> Yes, it’s about time.

The point we are seeking to make here is in this transition that *must*
come upon the plane of the earth, it is through the form of womanhood
that such a change will need to be made. And why? Simply because the
patriarchy which has been in the ascendancy for so long is identified as
being one and the same as the male form. Therefore even that male who
has awakened the female and ‘made the two within himself as one’ is
still viewed by the world as an expression of the patriarchy, and the
feminine consciousness of the Christed mind is not necessarily noticed
or listened to. Rest assured, then, if one of you would arise and truly
begin to serve as a channel for me, it would get much more press, much
more attention than the many channels who are in male form who perform
this service for me.

Therefore, *look not outside yourself* for the power or the means to
heal the things of time and space, to heal the things of your world.
Look well into the mirror and ask yourself only this: Am I willing as a
divine spirit to accept what I have set in motion and to no longer
succumb to the perception that there is an energy outside of femininity
that must still be placed on the seat of primacy?

Is it not time for womanhood to claim what they know to be true—there’s
never been anything real but love, nothing holds a higher value than
compassion and nurturance for all of life—and to begin to speak loudly,
to live powerfully, and to make an impact, to begin to ask other women
to join *with* you?

Is it not time to stop jabbering over the back fence and rather to take
time into your hands and to impact the world by being in perfect
attunement to the Divine Mother which *you* have chosen to incarnate—and
to be a physical representation thereof?

Indeed, beloved friends, while, yes, you have chosen to come and gather
in this most beautiful location of yours to play together, to dance
together, to cry together, to laugh together, to swim together with the
creatures who know you and love you, rest assured you’re also called by
a thought that has been sent out as a thread of light to all of
womanhood—that it is time to arise, to no longer believe that you can
only arise if the patriarchy *allows* you to arise, that it is no longer
necessary to wait to see if someone gives you *permission* to gather and
become powerful. It is indeed time for womanhood to step to the
forefront of the rebirthing of the New Age.

Rest assured, by doing so there will be many in male form who will very
quickly also begin to complete that process of reintegrating the
feminine into their own consciousness. There are many, many what you
would call men on your planet who are still waiting for “Mom” to take
charge. And what does that mean? Not their earthly mother, their Divine
Mother whom they know their physical mother to be a symbol of.

Therefore, I come forth in this short message to ask you to take time
together, to look at the obstacles, the fear, the pervasive places in
your consciousness where yet you believe that a patriarchal
consciousness is *still* your authority and is *still* the authority of
the world. Look not to see who sits in the seats of your government.
Remember the power is not out there unless *you* give it away.

What, then, can you do in *your* communities to be the one who arises
and calls womanhood to yourself? How can you begin to form those groups
that can begin to make impacts in your own communities in ways that have
never been done before? &hellip; With language filled with power that will
no longer tolerate a starving child upon your streets, that will no
longer tolerate what you call the weapons of destruction in the hands of
a teenager, that will no longer tolerate excuses for the waste of monies
on the things of war that could be used to nurture and awaken a child.
Is it not time to assume responsibility for your own decision to
incarnate as woman, the embodiment of the Divine Mother? Will you then
stretch your hearts open wide and find ways that you can nurture and
embrace creation, even as the Divine Mother embraces you?

Beloved friends, though once I came in the form of a man, understand
well that I did so simply because in that timeframe, without the proper
what you call ‘plumbing’ of the body, I would never have been listened
unto. And my simple gospel that there is only Love and only Love is
real, that you are one with God, would never have been heard or
remembered. And the name Jeshua in some feminine form would not have
survived the thirty-three years of my life. And in fact, though I would
have performed many miracles even in a feminine form, I would hardly
have come to have been known outside my little village. That’s just the
truth of the timeframe. And yet the message I brought is the message of
the Divine Mother. It is the message: *Only Love holds any value.* Only
life is sacred; not power, not control, and certainly not fear.

Therefore, I come to ask you if *you* are now willing to begin to look
more deeply, to playfully see what you can create together, what you can
create in your communities to bring forth the gentleness of the Christed
consciousness through feminine form so the world—who still believes that
bodies are real—can look upon you and remember,

> That’s the way it is supposed to be upon this gentle and beautiful
> earth.

Are you willing to give up the value you have placed upon patriarchal
consciousness? Are *you* willing to be brazen enough to invite your
sisters to join you in the highest vision possible throughout the
domains of creation? Are *you* willing to do in *your* timeframe what I
was willing to do in *mine*—to look into your consciousness and not
allow any part of it to be shaped by ideas that pervade the air of the
patriarchal culture in which you live.

Indeed, the time is at hand and the cry has gone out. Think not, then,
it is by accident that you gather in a little house on one little corner
of a small island. For that island represents the very fire and power of
a strong feminine consciousness. Tap into that power. Drink it into
yourselves. Create a ritual in which you open the frequencies of the
soul to the Goddess of the island that has birthed the very island upon
which you sit. Awaken that passion and that fire within your *own*
beingness, and fear it not.

And then decide—look well within your heart and see if what I have told
you is true. There is a part of you that remembers as a soul why you
have taken birth in a feminine form. There is a part of you that knows
that the time is at hand. Look well, then, and see for yourself if this
truth is not etched in the depth of your heart and of your mind and of
your soul and, verily, of the body itself. The body is but a
communication device. Will you, then, declare the truth that is true
always and be there for the embodiment of the Divine Mother from whom
all things have come forth?

And—above all—rejoice with one another, play with one another, *love you
one another*, even as the Mother has first loved you, as she has loved
all of us.

And with that, beloved friends, though the message be short, rest
assured, you could say there is much within the parameters of the
beginning and the end. Know then that I dance with you. Know well that I
swim with you. Know that I will be with you in your celebrations of this
short time together. For wherever hearts have chosen to come together,
to remember the truth, the celebrate the truth, the embody the truth,
and to release all things unlike the truth, where any such gather in my
name, I am with them. And my name is not Jeshua, as yours is not your
surname.

*My name is Love. And so is yours*.

Be you, therefore, at peace, beloved and holy sisters of the heart of
Christ, the beloved of the Divine Mother.

Be you therefore at peace, and play well. Do what you call the pulling
out of all of all the stops. And know that you are never alone and *all
power under heaven and earth is with you, now*.

Go then in peace, and thank you for allowing one who once came in male
form to participate in your circle. It is indeed an honor.

Amen.

