---
title: "Freedom and Forgiveness"
received: "Jan 30, 1993"
---

Now we begin.

Greetings unto you, beloved and holy friends. Always notice that it is with
great joy that I come forth to abide with you, as you've chosen in this hour to
come forth and abide with me.

We come together tonight as indeed we come together always — to share with one
another — but above all to abide with one another, by choosing to set aside the
perceptions of the world that seem to press against the mind and against the
heart and even against the body, to set them aside and to choose in this hour —
if just in this hour — to be but the presence of peace, to throw open the
shutters of the heart, to receive not something that comes from outside of us
but something that is already contained in its fullness within each of us.
Something that is given and never earned. Something that is eternally present.
Something that cannot be created because it has always been. Something that
when remembered allows the mind, the heart and even the body to rest at peace,
to look beyond the surface appearances of things and to see that peace is the
fundamental nature of all things that arise and pass away. Something that
allows us to remember. And that something indeed is but the presence of Love.
Love that rests as the essence of all things, Love that rests as the essence of
our beingness, and Love therefore that can be shared one unto another, at all
times, in all places and in all circumstances.

I come forth to abide in that place where we share the Love from which we have
come forth. I come forth from Love because it is the essence of all that I am,
and I come forth from Love to abide with you because Love is necessarily the
essence of all that you are. And yet, the place that I come forth from is never
outside of you. I do not come from some dimension that is four million light
years away, and I do not come as the result of any incantations or any magical
techniques. I come forth because I cannot help being where you are. But I do
come forth in many different ways, through whatever mind might allow me access
to it so that I can gain your attention.

Forever, the Truth remains but this: you are the one that you have eternally
sought throughout lifetimes. You are the one who abides already in the peace
that you seek, and you are the one who can allow healing to come to every
dimension of your life, and you are the one who can see the fruits of that
alliance.

And, of course, if you are that one and you certainly don't need anybody else,
you certainly don't need to ask for advice. You certainly don't need to plop
the bag of dust down in this building in this hour, for who outside of you can
say anything or do anything that can give you a deeper wisdom than you already
contain within yourself? Who indeed?

I have said often that there is really only one lesson that ever needs to be
learned and it is but this: “There is nothing outside of me." If that is true —
and I assure you that it is — it means that from the moment when you arise in
the morning to the time you rest the head of the body on your pillow at night,
seemingly saying goodbye to your day, you never look upon another; you never
see a perfect stranger. You see only yourself mirrored back to you. And it
means that all things that would be spoken unto you carry within them seeds of
wisdom if you would attend to them.

It means that my coming to this kind of place and this kind of an hour you can
join with someone who is not above you, not with someone who is wiser than you,
but with a brother and a friend. Someone who sees you as you are. Someone, who,
if you choose right now — if you choose — someone with whom you can be the
Truth of who you are without fear, without judgment, without concern.

I am merely one who was once upon this planet, and as a man I indeed completed
my part in what I have chosen to call the Atonement. Is the Atonement anything
but the cessation, if you will, of any perception that you have ever been
separate from God? My completion merely spoke to the establishment of a quality
of being in which no thought arose in my mind of separation. And when you
choose to abide with me — not just in this hour, but whenever you choose — to
simply think on me and join with me in the quiet of your mind, you are choosing
to join with a friend who sees you as an equal.

And, therefore, when you abide with me, all that you are really doing is making
a fully conscious choice to abide with the Truth and essence of yourself — that
through such abiding there can come remembrance, remembrance that within you
lies the power to choose peace in all circumstances, and within you lies the
power to know that guidance is never further than a choice away.

I once said that “I am with you always” and I meant it. I have never truly left
this plane, though I did release any thought or belief that having a body was
necessary. And yes, I have transcended space and time and, therefore, am not
limited to the rules, to the perceptions, to the paradigm that seems at times
to control your minds.

But because this has been accomplished and completed in me, it means that it
must necessarily come to pass that it is also completed in you. For the life
that you live so seemingly different, one from another, is not different at all
and, if you would receive it, it is not different from the life that was given
unto me in this world.

For your life holds but one purpose and that is indeed to awaken from every
last trace of perception that you have ever have been or could be separate from
God. To awaken from the dream that you could be less than the presence and the
reality of Love. To awaken from the dream that there is anything in the world
that can harm you or take a single thing around you from you. To awaken from a
mind conflicted with doubt and fear and perhaps self-loathing. To awaken to the
simplicity that in reality you can only be the presence of Love. And conflict
in the mind ends when you truly understand that being the presence of Love is
the only thing that in reality you are capable of being and doing. 

The surrender, then, or a relinquishment of the attempt to be anything else but
Love opens within you a sense of peace and a place of great power. A place of
power that will no longer allow you to tolerate error within the mind again. It
will no longer allow you to tolerate what could be called the abuse thrown upon
you by an insane mind or an insane world, and you will know that you are as
free as the wind, free indeed to pick up your things and make haste and go to
another location because the heart says so.

Free indeed to have created a career and after twenty years wake up one morning
and say, "Oops, none of this. Goodbye." Free indeed and powerful enough indeed
to look at the insanity of the world as it manifests seemingly around you or
even as it manifests within your own mind and laugh at it — not in derision,
not in putting it down, but laughing at it because it is harmless.

Indeed, beloved friends, I have come in this hour to abide with you, in this
particular way, for no other reason than to love you in a way that you can see
and understand and, hopefully, accept. But, in Truth, I am no more within this
body than you are within yours. And the only difference between us is that I
know that is true while you at times tend to forget and fall into the habit of
believing that surely you must only be here, you must be limited to the space
and volume of a body. And every time you do that, you have known fear. Every
single time that you have chosen to identify with just what starts at the crown
of the head and ends with the soles of the feet and extends outward as far as
the tips of the fingers, you have known fear and you have felt distance and
separation from your brothers and sisters. Even in the best of moments that
fear has been there.

And as long as identification with the body remains, you have and will continue
to seek out all manner of ways in which you can keep the body safe and fulfill
your needs according to its perceptions. Does that make sense to you?

If you value the body above all things, your entire experience will revolve
around satisfying the things that you believe can keep the body — and its
attendant ego — safe and secure. And, therefore, walls of fear will come. The
wall of fear that says, "Well, I've had my job for fifteen years. I can't just
drop it and go because some little voice inside says to do so. That's totally
illogical and insane. Besides, what will happen to me?"

Do you know that fear? What if I were to say to you that nothing will happen to
you? What if I were to say to you something that sounds so insane? What if I
were to say to you that nothing has ever happened to you? What if I were to say
to you that everything you've experienced and known and believed and perceived
has been simply by your choice? You are like a grand and great artist. You have
painted the canvas of possibilities for yourself and yet, in Truth, nothing has
ever happened to you. For if it has happened to you, you must first believe
that there is something outside of you, and so we come back to that one simple
lesson. And when it is learned, the world is transformed and transcended.

It is very pivotal, I believe your word would be. "There is nothing outside of
me. I am the dreamer of all worlds. I am the creator and the sustainer, and all
that I perceive and feel within myself in this very moment is by my choice. And
that which seems to perpetuate itself in my experience comes only because I've
not yet been willing to relinquish the value that I have placed upon it: a
belief that perhaps something has control over me, that I must stay in one
place and be conformed to some certain way of being or some calamity will
ensue." And yet, all such thoughts come from your misidentification of yourself
as this limited third dimensional being, when, in fact, right now, you are as I
am. And if I am but a great ray of Light held in the Mind of God, a great ray
of Light that shines in the perfection of Love and touches the vast reaches of
all universes, the same thing is true for you. The same thing is true for you.

What then could that bridge be? For it is fine — and what you call “dandy” — to
hear such insane thoughts be thrown at you through some body, but what must
that bridge be that carries the mind from its habitual perceptions of itself
into a place where such thoughts are self-evident? What is that bridge that
carries you from doubt, from fear, from limitation, from hesitancy, from
pulling back, from believing that you are separate, and even you can lose or
things can at least be lost to you?

What is that bridge that carries you into a space or a place in which the kinds
of ideas that I'm sharing with you are naturally self-evident? What is that
bridge that can carry the mind unto a place of perfect peace, in which the
walls of fear no longer arise? In which you can throw off the shackles of the
perceptions and beliefs of this world and allow yourself to become as the wind,
freely going, following what is called the heart, following what is called your
deepest joy? What is that bridge that carries the mind to a place where you are
willing to trust, trust the gentle Voice that is not your own? 

Someone said that such a bridge is simply to choose being insane. Rest assured,
there were many who said that about me. "Why would you listen to this one? He's
wholly insane. I remember him when he was but a child, learning to be a
carpenter in his father's little shop. Yes, he would disappear for weeks on
end, go off to meet those oddballs, those called the Essenes, and he would come
back and do some rather interesting and odd things, but I tell you, he's just a
child like everybody else and don't listen to him. He's wholly insane. Yes, I
am well aware he's been talking about his Father Who lives with him always, and
I tell you I just saw Joseph yesterday in the city and he wasn't anywhere near
Jeshua. And he talks about this Kingdom of Heaven and that you are not separate
at any time in any way, shape or form, and what he says to you, death is
unreal. Don't believe him. Look around you. Life will tell you what is true and
what is real."

Oh, yes, I was called insane. And so the bridge that carries the mind from
where it seems to be to the place of peace, into the place in which the
shutters are thrown off of the inner spiritual side, thrown off the heart, the
bridge begins to be built with your choice to be willing to allow it to be
built for you. And that willingness comes as a gentle thought within your own
mind and within your own heart, in which, in your own way, you say to God — in
whatever way you want to conceive of God — "I want freedom and I want peace,
and above all things I am willing to relinquish my own thoughts and perceptions
of who I am and what the world is for. I am willing to return myself, to start
anew and to relinquish all value that I have placed upon the perceptions that I
have come to identify with, and I am willing and ready to be taught anew."

Willingness is the first step of creating that bridge that must necessarily
carry the soul from where it dwells, in its sense of separation, into its
reality that has never changed: the reality of being one with God, unlimited
forever, having no birth and never tasting death, the remembrance of yourself
as a great ray of Light held lovingly in the Mind of all that God is, a
remembrance that begins to outshine for you and through you every perception of
limitation that you seem to see through the eyes of the body.

Willingness — your willingness — and that willingness rests on your choice to
entertain the thought of being insane in the eyes of the world, having the
audacity, the outrageousness, the courage to say, "I'm going to allow myself to
be taught a new way. From this moment I am going to act as if I am not the body
and I am not its attendant ego at all. Any such feelings or thoughts that arise
within the body and the ego are not mine at all. They are just a movie." And if
nine million, nine hundred and ninety-nine thousand, nine hundred and
ninety-nine of your friends and your family believe otherwise, so what? "I'm
going to become so outrageous that if I'm the only one on the planet to
entertain the thought that “I and my Father are One”, I'm going to do it and
allow that thought to restructure all of my perceptions. And if that means that
all of my experience needs to change radically, if I need to give up what I
perceive to be the comfort of my life and my career and my everything, if I
need to live penniless in the streets, what the heck, I'm going to do it
anyway. I'm going to withdraw the value I have placed on the things of the
world." That's not the same thing as immediately cutting yourself off from the
world and running away from it. That's not what I mean. But, internally, in the
mind and heart, you choose to withdraw the value you have placed upon all the
experiences you have known and believed must continue to keep you safe.

When you choose to be the one to do that, you open the door. And the door that
you open is to the hallowed temple in which the Holy Spirit dwells, closer to
you than your own breath, more certain than any dream you have ever had or the
experience you've ever known in this world. And because you have opened that
door, that shutter, there is a place within your own mind that begins to be
capable of hearing a Voice that is not your own, a Voice that might speak with
a twang of intuition, a Voice that might seem to pull you one day in one
direction and then one day in the next. But you will begin to discern that its
pull and that its Voice, and that its included little hits, always come from a
place of peace and never conflict, unless you choose to continue in your
insanity. Your ability to hear that Voice grows.

It's like looking through a fog and seeing a distant light. At first you see
it; you recognize it; something about it is attractive, but then you try to
focus on it and the fog seems to obliterate it. But sit in the midst of what
you think that fog is — whatever is going on in your mind — and remind
yourself, "I am not separate from the One Who has created me as the thought of
Love in form. God is with me, now, and I choose anew. I look upon the body and
the conflicts that arise in the thoughts of the ego and I choose to see them as
not my own, and I relinquish them and I place them upon the altar of the heart,
and I ask again only to hear the sweet and gentle Voice that speaks from and
for peace. And I ask that Voice, and that Voice alone, to be my guide."

Now all of that sounds nice, but I want you to know that if you have listened
carefully, if you are willing to absorb it and take it within yourself, you
will understand that all that I teach you I teach only because I once learned
it, and the ideas and the thoughts that I have shared with you are the very
same ideas and thoughts that were taught to me. And because I learned them I
can share them with you. And I can say unto you that from where I am, that way
of listening and following that gentle Voice that speaks from and for peace,
that way, following that way, leads with perfect certainty to peace, to
fulfillment, to salvation, to Atonement. It leads you gently across the bridge
that you have allowed to be constructed for you. When you create a place for it
within you, it will lead you beyond all limitations of this world finally,
completely and most certainly. It will lead you in each moment and in each set
of circumstances from conflict to peace, from war to peace, from self-doubt to
self-love, from anger to gentleness, and perhaps above all, from separation to
union with God. And it may occur now.

There cannot be a set of circumstances that can ever steal from you the power
to choose which voice you will listen to and value. For both voices are within
you. The Holy Spirit is that bridge already placed within you, given wholly by
the beloved grace of God unto you, His precious Child and His only creation,
who once choose to dream the dream of separation. You see, you do not really
create the bridge at all but through your willingness you begin to recognize
that it already exists. And at first it seems ephemeral and "What will happen
if I step upon this bridge? Will it collapse? Will it dissolve like mist rising
from a valley because the sun is come? Will I fall into some of this?" Many of
you here know deeply that fear of letting go and stepping upon a bridge that
doesn't quite seem real yet. But its lack of reality only comes because you've
forgotten for a long period of time that the bridge is already there.

"And if I step upon it, will I fall?" And I would suggest that if we were all
perfectly honest with ourselves now, we would have to admit that, "My goodness
gracious, I've already fallen a thousand times about as far as one could
possibly fall." Is there anything to be lost by choosing to entertain the
thought that there is a perfect bridge within you now and a Voice Whose
guidance will never err when your intention is peace? What do you think?
Willing to take the step, take the leap, as you call it? 

Some of you already have. Some of you here already know through your experience
that no matter what seems to be occurring in the world around you, it is
perfectly safe to have stepped upon that bridge and to have begun the practice
of learning how to listen to the still and quiet Voice that speaks for peace.
If we teach you a new way of looking at who you are and what the world is for,
that would ask you to relinquish everything you've ever valued so that it can
teach you the one thing that holds a value that is priceless. And some of you
still stand with your toes perhaps upon the bridge, but yet perhaps a little
reluctant to step boldly.

I have come in this hour for all of you, but especially for those of you that
have been called here in this hour to hear again that the bridge exists within
you, to hear again of the great safety in stepping upon it. And that which can
propel you to that is forgiveness.

Have you ever had a thought of anyone or anything and valued your anger and
valued your judgment of another being, another event that occurred yesterday
or, quite often is the case, many, many years ago? Have you ever noticed that
now and then the thought of the judgment that you have placed upon that event
or upon the choice of that person, whatever it is, can come in the midst of the
most peaceful of your moments and disturb that peace instantly? Have you ever
looked closer to see how part of the mind that I have called the ego, likes to
bring those things up?

You find the mind saying, "If only my parents would have done things
differently. If only somebody else would have been elected President. If only I
would have gotten that promotion. If only I hadn't eaten that ice cream. If
only something... then I would be whole, happy and in peace." Know you that
voice?

That voice is the voice of the world. That is the voice of the ego. And each
time you notice that it has arisen within you, right there is the time to make
a new choice and to choose to hear only the Voice for peace. And the way that
choice can happen and become strengthened and accelerated is that in any such
time a thought arises, a thought of anger, an ancient memory — and from my
perspective, anything that happened five minutes ago back is an ancient memory
— understand that you have the power to extend forgiveness to that memory. Not
just to the being who was involved or the beings involved, but to the memory
itself as it holds as if it were a movie within you, to extend forgiveness to
it, to wrap it in your Love. And if you want to change it, go back to that
event that didn't quite seem to work out. Go back to the time that your spouse
or your boyfriend or your girlfriend packed up and left and, by the way, they
packed your things with theirs, go back to that moment when they left you out
of their own fears and of their own insanities without honoring all that you
are, and change the event.

See them as having come to you and sat down with you and said, "You know, I
really feel in my heart I need to go. May I have your permission?" And you say,
"Yes, I love you. Of course you can go and do whatever you want. I can't be
separate from you because minds are never separate one from another, and time
and space don't really exist anyway, so just go and have a good time. Send me a
postcard — not the physical kind, but come to me in my dreams and my
meditations, between the space of the thoughts that arise in my mind, and just
say, ‘Hello’ now and then. I love you so much I give you total freedom to do
whatever you want."

Feel yourself change that event within your own memory and you will change the
energetic state of what you've been holding onto. And extend forgiveness to
yourself for unwittingly holding onto a perception that has never hurt the
other person but has hurt you because it has limited you, and separated you
from the Love that you are and the sense of peace and safety that was placed
there in you when you were created in the Mind of God.

Forgiveness is the great need of this world. And if it is the great need of
this world, it means that it is the great need within each and every mind.
Forgiveness... forgiveness is that which allows the heart and the mind to
become untethered to the past. Forgiveness will allow you to embrace the
present and to move boldly into what you call the future, knowing that wherever
you are, all power under Heaven and Earth is given unto you, because given unto
you is the inherent and infinite power of your mind to choose: the power to
choose to set aside anything you believe you dislike, anything you are hesitant
about; the power to recognize that everything can be made new again, here and
now. And if you are lacking monies, then all you need do is accept the fact
that the attitudes and perceptions you have held obviously have never worked
and you are free to choose anew. And if you are without what you call “love”,
obviously somewhere you chose wrongly.

Now, there are two ways to change that: thirty-three years of psychotherapy
might do it and you'll make somebody very wealthy or you can look at the choice
you made by looking at what your present experience is and go, "My goodness
gracious, the joke is on me. Perhaps it's time to choose anew."

Become again as a little child who in their innocence is willing to learn anew
and to adopt a new perspective and a new perception, so that the experience
that you've had that has seemed to limit you, the experiences that you are now
withdrawing your value from, can be replaced by that which will teach you that
all things can come to you when you accept your worthiness as a Child of God.

Forgiveness, forgiveness because, if you would well receive it, there has never
been an experience that you have ever known in this world or another that has
not been anything but....

{End of tape}

Yes, I heard your thought that the tape was about to end.

*It was better than when we started. What did you do then?* 

*We really blew it.* 

Did I?

*Jon Marc did. Somebody did it.*

Now, we'll take a little aside here to share something with you — and that is
why I asked you the question: so you would share that thought. When this work
begins, there is a point at which you could say the stage is set, the wiring is
done, and I say unto this my beloved brother, "We can begin now." When he is in
a space of wholly trusting, immediately we begin. At the same time, the thought
has been shared with this one, “Time to start the machine." When she is wholly
trusting, she starts it. What occurred tonight was that as this blending
occurred — which does not take place within the body at all — and I blended
with a frequency of mind that this, my beloved brother, is, and said, "All
things are in place and we can begin now," he hesitated. That hesitation is a
hesitation that all of you know well. Is that not true? You want so much to
hear the quiet and gentle Voice that comes and speaks for peace and for Love.
You want to trust that guidance. And the guidance comes and you go, "Well, I'm
not quite sure. Give it to me one more time. Oh, in a different form will be
nice, too. Would you have flowers delivered with it?" There is a hesitancy and
the moment is lost.

So, it's an aside, but something worth pointing out. Why? Because it speaks to
some of you quite directly, and it's going to speak to certain minds that are
going to do what you call reading the transcription about three months from now
when they get it in the mail. And when they hear that part, it's going to
trigger something and they are going to get something very deeply they've been
asking for. So, thank you for your patience.

So, how are you all doing?

*Good. Great.*

Are you sure you are doing good? 

Well then, we'll find out, for, you see, you have the power of choice at any
moment at any time to radically change everything about you: your thoughts,
your energy state, everything. You know that that is true. Well then, in your
own way, whether it means just moving onto your knees or — if you were to
really cut loose — leaping to the feet, you have three seconds to let energy
course through every cell of the body. Leap to your knees or up to your feet or
out of your chair and just shout, "Yes!" as loud as you can. Are you ready?
Now.

*YES!*

Very good. Now, how did that feel?

*Great.*

Ah, you're beginning to get it. If you can do that here, you can do it
anywhere. When heaviness comes upon the mind and doubts begin to swirl...do you
know that feeling?  

And then you think, "If only I could understand these thoughts, maybe I could
make this conflict in this world stop," and you add more thoughts to try to
understand them, and pretty soon you've added more forces into the ring and
instead of two or three, you've got fifty or sixty running or chasing each
others' tails, and "It's really getting out of hand, so maybe I'll just
entertain a few more." Know you that feeling?

All you need do is interrupt the energy, the frequency of the momentum of what
is occurring. And the simplest way of doing that is what we just did. Change
the body and you will change the energy. Change the thought that you are
entertaining. And there is no greater thought than "yes" because “yes” is
affirmative. “Yes” is accepting. “Yes” is allowing. “Yes” is a declaration. Did
you notice how even the state of the body changed? How do you feel inside? Did
you notice that?

*Uhhuh.*

So when you go home, take all of your books on what you call the
psychotherapies, spirituality, religion and philosophy and throw them out of
the window. Take a piece of paper and a pen and write "Yes”, and put it on your
bookshelf. Could it be that simple? Yes.

It's really the same thing as saying, “I and my Father are One. Separation does
not exist and, therefore, I have every right to choose joy. I have a right to
look beyond all appearances that seem to be going on in this myriad, imaginary
world around me and relinquish the value that I've placed upon it and say ‘Yes’
to the presence of peace, in which all power and all guidance is restored to
the mind because the mind has chosen wholeness, and wholeness is the bridge
along which it is safe to walk." I would say "Yes" to that.

Forgiveness. If there is but one shadow or one thought or one ancient memory
that seems yet to crop up within you, that seems to disturb your peace and
still control you, know it is because you have chosen not to extend your
forgiveness to it. And the part of you that is doing that is the ego — the part
that speaks from conflict, from fragmentation and separation. When you notice
that, be bold enough to choose anew so that you hold not back one shadow for
yourself that the ego would use to say, "Do you see? I knew it. No matter what
I do I can't quite be happy." 

It is as if someone came along and said, "If you want to be happy, just
unclench the fist so that the palm is open, so that it can receive." And you
go, "Very well. It didn't work. See, I did it and it didn't work." But you
still had two fingers clenched. "No, no, but you see, I have to keep these
clenched. Because what they are holding onto is really real. I let go of the
stuff that was only semi-real, but this is really real, and you don't
understand. It's not like anything you've ever experienced. This is really
real."

Can there be degrees to what is unreal? No, and each dream of guilt or shame or
pain or hurt, each dream carries an equality with all the rest, and the
equality is based on the fact that they are wholly unreal.

Not to the ego that experiences them, but they are unreal because they do not
truly touch and harm that infinite place of Light that dwells as you even
within the dream as it occurs.

That is why forgiveness is so important: because forgiveness needs to be
extended with equality unto all dreams to which the mind will yet cling. For
some confuse forgiveness with the hope that once it is extended, the memory
will disappear. In time it will. It will disappear in the very same way that
the dream of being a body in space and time will fade away. And that is not
unlike the most powerful dreams you have when you sleep, and yet when you
awaken in the night, it may linger with you over your morning coffee — or
whatever it is you have. It may linger with you as you take yourself to your
place of employment or to the park for a walk — whatever it is you do. You've
all had that experience. Sometimes the dream lingers, maybe for days. There
comes a point when it's gone.

In just the same way even the dream of space and time will come to be forgotten
as if it had never been. And that is true for everything that you believe yet
controls you. "If I relinquish what I'm clinging to because it's all I have
known and all I have believed, what would befall me?" Growth and peace. And
that which you have decided to value as having a greater sense of reality seems
to be the hardest thing to forgive or let go of, and they become as weights
upon the heart that seem to keep the soul stuck.

Do you know what it feels like to be stuck? It is called being in a rut and a
rut is what hell is. Something that keeps you pinned, that doesn't seem to
change no matter how much effort you put into it. No matter how far away you
seem to go, it's always with you, and certain patterns keep getting repeated
over and over. It's because you haven't forgiven the source of it. Forgiveness
untethers the mind and the heart from the past, and it brings you the Truth
that sets you free.

You are loved wholly and you have never sinned. Nothing you have ever said or
done has ever caused failure in this universe. Nothing you've ever said or done
has ever separated you from the Love that God is. And try as you might, nothing
you could ever say or do will ever separate you from the Love that lives in and
is the essence of your being. And in the end, the Atonement is completed in
you, even as it was completed and then demonstrated in me, by your willingness
to relinquish every last trace of perception of separation from God. To have
the audacity to accept a new idea: "There's nothing outside of me. I look not
upon a stranger. I see only myself. I am free to extend Love and to choose
peace. I am free now because, no matter what, now I choose to hear only the
Voice for peace, calming the insane world that I have chosen."

And from that moment, you are on the bridge that must necessarily lead you
beyond all worlds. The bridge that carries the holy Child of God home again.
The bridge that reveals to you that you do not live in space and time — only
the body and ego do because they are the dream of separation. The bridge that
reveals to you that you are eternal and changeless and unchanging forever. The
bridge that brings you into the knowingness that you, the essence of who you
are, has been brought into existence for no other reason than to be and express
and extend the perfect Love that is the presence of God. There is no other
purpose. The bridge that illuminates your heart and your mind with the
recognition that you live, yet not you but that Christ lives as you and that
this alone has always been the Truth and the sole essence of your only reality.

Forgiveness carries you from this world to where I am and where only passion
is: in every brother and sister that God has created and given unto me who
would come wholly to where I am — because you are already there. And coming
home, then, is but the recognition of the Truth that has never changed and
cannot change.

The bridge, then, reveals to you that the world you would believe in is so
wholly insane that, as you drive down the road in your automobile, you can
remember the Truth and say with me, "My presence blesses this world."

"Oh, how dare you say such a thing? That is sacrilegious." Some have told you
that the only person that has ever had the right to say that is me, because I
was created by God and sent to the world and you were created as a figment of
somebody's imagination or the fruit of some unholy union between the devil or
some such thing. You are an error in the universe. You are a mistake on the
drawing board. You have no right to be here. Poor sinful creatures.

My holiness blesses this room and this gathering. Your holiness blesses me.
Hear, then, these words as though you were speaking them for yourself in the
depth of your being: "My presence blesses all that I look upon and my presence
is my holiness. I am whole and complete. I am but Love."

And I am going to suggest to you that you let not a morning go by — not one
single morning — that when you first open your eyes, you take just enough time
to look around at all things that you see and say to yourself, "My holiness
blesses all that I see. I bring to these things my perfect peace." And in each
evening when the body is worn out, as it is wont to be, before you close the
physical eyes, allow your attention to withdraw from the body so you have what
you call out-of-body experiences and dreams and all of that, and think upon the
day that you have just lived. Look upon the events and the people, the friends
that came into it, and see the wholeness of it, saying, "My holiness has
blessed this world given unto me in this day." And then just simply say, "Thank
you" to the Source of your creation.

This isn't just a ritual. It is something that is quite practical. The power of
doing this kind of thing is the same power that can move mountains — first, out
of your own mind, and then out of your experience, and finally out of the world
altogether. It is to link yourself with the power of the Holy Spirit. It is to
link yourself with the power of forgiveness. It is to link yourself with the
remembrance that Christ dwells in you. It is to link yourself with the reality
of your own power to choose. And it will lay the foundation for all healing
that will begin to propel you upon a wholly new journey.

So the taxicab awaits and it has been delivered to your front door, and because
you are free at all times, it is entirely up to you whether or not you will
leave the home — that is, the perceptions, the paradigm, the framework that
your mind has been living in — and to step into this taxicab, and the little,
short, overweight man, smoking the cigar, sitting behind the steering wheel.
It's the Holy Spirit and He will guide you and take you across the bridge that
you have built through your willingness and your forgiveness, and He will
deliver you in each moment, in each day in your lifetime, to the place of
peace, in which perfect union is restored forever.

And to those of you that at times have forgotten, you can rest assured that I
am available to you. Whenever you simply hold a thought of me, I am with you.
This world of space and time, this world of your own thoughts of shame and
guilt and failure, these things are as nothing to me. But the Light and the
Love that you are, these things are as everything to me. Therefore, I perceive
only these things in you. And if a ring of fear seems too strong to leap
through, just give it to me and use my strength until yours is as certain as
mine.

I love you because when I look upon you I see naught but myself — radiant,
eternal, shining brightly, held lovingly in the Mind of my Father. And I will
never leave you.

So, much, therefore, has been given unto you so far this evening, and if you
would receive it and truly take it within, even if the mind is going, "No, I
need something else" — that voice is the voice of the ego that would keep you
from stepping onto the bridge — if you are willing to receive all that has been
shared and to take it deeply within yourself, the end of the journey becomes
immediately certain. Immediately. And miracles will come unto you: the miracles
of healing and the miracle of perfect peace. Yes.

So, with that, I have shared what I came to share, so what I want to do is but
this: I want to ask each and every one of you to take just a few moments to go
into your own heart, to abide in the silence and at first ask yourself, "Am I
willing to hear only the Voice for peace no matter what? Am I willing to take
the words that I have heard and to allow them to be recognized as my own?" —
because all wisdom is already within you.

And having done that, then simply ask of yourself, "Am I complete with what has
transpired in this evening?" And if the answer is "No, I am going to hang
around awhile," if there are questions that you feel that you want to ask, then
give yourself permission to remain and I will remain with you as long as you
choose to be here. So do these things in silence for just a moment and then
take a little break with the bodies. And if you feel like it is appropriate for
you to leave, by all means do so and have a blessed evening. If you choose to
want to remain, take what you call “about five minutes” and then plop the bag
of dust down again and we will continue.

If you do choose to leave, know that all you are really doing is moving the
body to a different location in the dream of space and time but you are not
leaving me because I will never leave you. I’m your servant. I didn't set it up
that way. God did.

Therefore, be at peace in all things. And to those of you that choose to
remain, I will again blend with this body in about five of your minutes and if
there are questions that desire to be asked, we will see if there is any such
thing as an answer for you. Be, then, at peace in all things, precious friends,
great rays of Light shining eternally in the Mind of my Father. Be at peace.
Amen.

Now, again, we begin.

So, I have shared with you that I've completed and shared with you all that I
came to bring to you this evening. And I do hope that you choose to take it
within, utilize it, since ultimately there is no purpose or value to time if
one does not choose to use it wisely. And the ultimate wise use of time is to
awaken from separation. And if you will take that which was shared with you and
allow it to become as your own, put it into practice, it will indeed effect
what are called miracles in your own life and the end of the journey will come
to pass for you.

So, with that, I would assume then since you've chosen to leave the bodies
hanging around in this room, it is because the minds have questions. So let us
begin. 

I'm looking particularly to my husband who's sick, and I'm just wondering, you
know, does he have a plan to die and can you change that?

First, beloved friend, what matters the most for you in this is to remember
that death is not real. Can you change it? Yes, but again what matters for you
is the remembrance that death of a body is not death at all and there cannot be
separation between minds that are joined in Love.

Now, are there events — dreams, I would call them — that are predestined? In
the sense that the complete freedom of the mind has chosen, because it has had
experiences, or because of its choices, to draw together to itself the elements
that can create a certain kind of an experience, because the mind has chosen to
do this and holds a value for that — perhaps not what you would call
consciously but at a very deep level — yes, things that evolve and occur can be
called predestined. But from a larger perspective, nothing is nor needs to be
predestined, and all things can, in fact, be changed. If they could not be
changed, it would mean that there is some power outside of you that can control
and dictate to you the nature of your experience. I can assure you that there
is nothing and no one outside of the mind that dictates or controls the nature
of its experience.

This one who is your mate in this life is one whom you have known before, and
you are one who in your own journey has been seeking to truly learn — not just
as a thought, but as a living, breathing knowingness — to learn the reality
that death is unreal and that separation can in no wise exist, and minds that
are joined in Love are available to one another at all times.

This, coupled with a basic perception that yet remains held in the mind of the
mate, works together to create the situation in which the possibility of what
you would call his death, and therefore, separation from your life, can
possibly unfold. What is held within the mind of the one who is your mate is
held deeply, as what could be a called a root perception, if you will, that
goes much, much deeper than ideas that you would strive to believe in and hope
for.

He has carried for a very long time a basic feeling or idea that some way in
life — and even the best of times — that there is a weight, a discomfort, in
what you would call being here, and this weight creates a conflict that then
expresses itself in the body itself. Can you change that? In one way of looking
at it, I would say, yes, he can, but it comes really in his willingness to
allow it to be changed for him, and that would require within him, shall we
say, a stepping to a level of trust and relinquishing a perception of himself
as a controller or maker or a doer — a level of that trust and knowingness that
he's been hesitant to do. It would require of him that he truly surrender all
perceptions of himself and what the world is about, just to surrender all of
them to the Holy Spirit — that part of the universal Intelligence that he
shares. Then the correction can begin to take place at the level of mind from
which the disease in the body has come. 

As a soul, he has not wholly made that choice to allow that correction in the
mind to come. And at this point it is undecided whether or not he will.

You see, such a choice cannot really be made in the hopes that it will bring
about the outcome of healing because the fear of death, or the desire for
outcome, comes from the very perception held in the mind that is in need of
healing. While certain thoughts and beliefs are adhered to in this one's, what
we call here, conscious mind, at a very deep level he has not yet quite been
willing to truly accept himself as infinitely free and, therefore, free to
wholly be within the experience of living.

The essence, then, of the question can be answered. The importance of the
answer rests on your willingness to see that the experience arises, we could
call it, in tandem creation. That is, the two of your souls have chosen to come
together to, in a sense, act out something that could be called predestined:
the event. How you each choose to deal with this speaks to your willingness to
allow certain deep perceptions to truly be healed by change. For you, again, it
is to truly learn the reality that death does not exist at any time, and for
him, the opportunity to choose at a very deep level, healing to come to the
mind.

In either case, the death of the body is chosen and allowed. It will present a
continuance of an opportunity to grow together because you would not in anywise
be separated by death. Healing can come at any time. That would require what
you would perceive as a miracle — but miracles can occur naturally to minds
that have chosen to be the presence of Love at all levels and to allow the
correction to come to even the depths of the mind.

I would suggest, then, that you share this answer with the mate, and remember
that, as you do that, there is not one thing you can do to coerce or hope that
this deep level of choice would be made. You can only present the answer given
and allow him to do with it what he will. But if he chooses to truly listen to
the answer, he will find in the words chosen what could be called a stairway to
a deeper understanding about this source of the disease itself. And if he
chooses to relinquish certain perceptions, I will indeed come and abide with
him and help to work to bring the correction back to the depth of the mind that
can then allow a manifestation of a body that has been healed.

Does that help you understand that? 

*Yes, it helps me a lot.*

Beloved friend, I love you greatly, and great have been the shifts — the
healings — that have occurred within you. Allow them to continue. Choose always
to remember who you are and where you abide eternally. 

It's going to be a very valuable experience no matter what you call the Earthly
outcome. It provides both of you continually with incredible opportunities to
learn to be the presence of Love that is perfectly pure, unattached to any
outcomes that lie in the world of space and time. And, ultimately, the meaning
and purpose of all relationships is but to learn how to love.

I have a question in regard to the voices that speak, and the question is, that
for a longtime I have listened and been guided by interior voices and seem to
act quickly when they speak, but this June I heard a voice that told me to move
to New Hampshire, and I have hesitated because I'm really not clear yet and
I've been clear before. I'm not clear yet whether this voice is coming to
disturb what I'm involved in now, or whether, in fact, it's really the voice of
the Spirit that I am being freed to listen to at some point. So my reason for
sharing this is for your response to what I'm saying.

Already earlier, I sense the answer has been given you. The voice that speaks
for the Holy Spirit always comes from a deep place of peace within you and
speaks to the place of peace that is within you. That quality of peace is
something that you have learned to discern, and because you have been aware of
it, you have then been able to listen to that voice for guidance and quite
often to act on it without even a trace of hesitation.

But now you are being taken to a deeper level, shall we say, a deeper
refinement of that ability to hear and to know immediately which voice speaks.
And part of the reason for that is, what could be called here, a preparation
that is going on within you for some work that you will be asked to do a little
later down the road in this life.

When the voice came initially, when the thought came about moving to what you
call the New Hampshire, there was hesitancy for two reasons: the first was
because of the perceived value that you have placed on what you are involved in
now. It is a value, by the way, most appropriately placed. And often when that
voice speaks to you and what you are involved with is held as valuable for you
— and it can be anything; it can just be a sense of, "But I'm really
comfortable now" — there can then be hesitancy to listen. But at a deeper level
there was hesitancy within you that continues to be, because you have not been
able to discern that same quality of peace. It seems to be there but something
keeps nudging you within that makes you wonder, "Is it really coming from that
voice for peace?" 

Now, the perception held in your mind has been when that voice speaks that
would create change, it should do so, hopefully, at times that do not create
what is perceived as disturbance in the flow of life on this plane. That is, it
should come at a time when it is most appropriate and happen with great ease
without a sense of sacrifice or doubt.

A deepening level of refinement of hearing the Voice of the Holy Spirit
requires a deepening of the ability to relinquish what one is involved with
even when your perception tells you that it is good and appropriate and
valuable, because it requires an even deeper level of trust in how the bigger
picture of healing is coming to the minds of mankind.

Therefore, this conflict is presenting for you the opportunity to deepen and
refine your ability to discern the quality of peace from which the Voice, or
the thought, of the guidance comes. All things that begin in time, end in time,
when their purpose has been completed for you as an awakening soul.

Therefore, what you are involved with here and now, because it has been birthed
by a body, you must necessarily know it will end in time, but your safety
remains with you forever. And when, in Truth, that refinement has been deepened
and guidance comes, you can rest assured when you listen to it and follow it —
I am not necessarily speaking of the voice that would say, "Move to the New
Hampshire," but the guidance that comes from the Holy Spirit at this deeper
level of refinement — when it comes and you discern the quality of peace from
which it comes and to which it speaks anew, any change at this level of life
that ensues because of it always serves the highest and best for everyone and
everything you are currently involved in. It may not appear to be that way at
the surface, but at a deeper level — which is the level at which correction and
healing and awakening is coming to all minds — at that level it will serve the
highest and the best for everyone and everything involved.

I want to suggest to you again — heed well — all that has been shared in this
hour, and to just realize for right now that this process that is going on is
actually refining and deepening your ability to discern the sense of peace that
speaks for healing, for awakening, and it may begin to require you to deepen
your faith in your ability to serve what I have chosen to call the Atonement,
the awakening process, and yes, at times will ask you to give up everything
that you thought was appropriate for you.

This conflict will not be continuing much longer. It is not given unto me in
this hour to tell you the answer in terms of "Yes, I go" or "No, I don't." That
will come out of  the refinement of the choice spoken, and that process that
has been going on for a while is nearly completed. Most probably before what
you call the Spring of your year comes — and it's not too far from now — this
process will have been completed in you. At that point, when next that voice
comes, you will know whether you need to heed it or not. It will flower quite
naturally. Does that help you with that?

*Yes, because I don't mind waiting. But my mind is refusing to&hellip;*

Yes, you are not. Just trust that for right now your waiting process is not a
refusal. It is but a deepening or a refinement of your ability to hear
guidance. You are, by the way, quite deep already but it will become deeper.

Remember always that patience does indeed mean "to make power slowly." What do
you like in New Hampshire?

*I think I like it. I've never been there in my body.*

I'm glad you threw that in. In about sixty days of your time, begin the simple
meditation in which you see that place, perceive it within the mind, and this
place in all that you are involved with now, and as if you are placing them one
in the left hand and one in the right, and holding them before your heart, and
then merely ask that that which is being asked of you reveal itself to you
clearly as a brightening or an enlightening of what you are seeing in the mind
— as if someone were shining a spotlight upon it. Do this daily for about a
week's time and just observe the experience that arises. At the end of that
time clarity will come quite naturally to you. The appropriate decision will be
made by you. Fair enough? 

*I think so.*

Did you understand the little meditation? 

*I do. I think it's already happening in one sense, for I already have images of
what it would be like in New Hampshire and I have some sense of&hellip; well, I know
who the&hellip; what I'm going to is quiet and what I would be leaving would be a
tremendous amount of activity. And creating some hermit time for a while,
that's really what I want to do, and this is a time to prepare to leave.*

In the time of sixty days and one little seven-day period in which you quite
deliberately go into your meditation with that kind of intent, it will become
perfectly clear for you in everything that needs to unfold very easily&hellip;

*Okay, I understand that. Thank you.*

Thank you. You have been one — not only in this life but in several — who has
carried the intent of learning to listen only for the Voice of peace and to
follow that which you would be guided to follow, that serves not just yourself
but the whole, and that is why I say, "Thank you."

Jeshua, thank you for speaking to our hearts and for staying to indulge our
minds a bit here. I appreciated it. About five years ago I was told that if I
could remember or gain more information about my connection to my being in the
Andromeda Galaxy, that my spiritual life in this lifetime would be greatly
enhanced, and during this past five years I haven't given it a lot of attention
because I've certainly been busy moving and growing spiritually. But it's up
again in my consciousness big-time and won't go away. Now, I've opened my heart
and I've opened my mind and have prayed for memories to come back and whatever
technique I need to use to pull out more information to come, and I just get
this emptiness...a stone wall, yet I can’t seem to let go of it. So, I wondered
if you could shed some light on it?

You have what we will call here some old friends that are ringing you up.
You've been living in a distant place, and there are certainly no telephone
lines between here and there but they know your number. What you call “the
coming up big-time”, that is when your switchboard within is lighting up with
various incoming calls. Do you see?

There is desire on their part to begin communication. I should say,
re-establish communication with you. What is creating the wall is the efforting
that you bring to the process of wanting to remember...it is like wanting to
see so badly that you’ve tightened the muscles in your forehead and around your
eyes and wanting it so badly, that the eyes are actually closed and they don't
know it, waiting, trying so hard, wanting to see and not noticing that the
intensity of the way you are efforting is actually creating the block to what
could be seen quite easily.

This squinting that is taking place within your soul comes because there is a
little wall of fear. Imagine one who is told, "Well, I'm going to come round
and pick you up in about two months' time when the weather and everything is
just perfect. We are going to have a bit of an adventure. I'm going to take you
out to the country and we're to climb a very high mountain together. It may
appear to be a little dangerous and something you have not done, but don't
worry; you'll be okay." And so you say, "Why, yes, of course. No problem. I'll
just wait." And then a time frame passes and one day you look at your calendar
and you go, "Oh, my God, I'm supposed to be picked up tomorrow. I'm not so sure
I'm ready for this. I've never climbed a mountain." And it creates a rigidity,
a veil, an interference, and so you begin to look out your window on the day
that your friend is to come and pick you up, and your mind begins to race with
thoughts, actually hoping that perhaps the car is stalled or that he has
forgotten to write it down on his own calendar.

Something like that has been going on within you for some time simply because
there are some old friends who have some information to bring forth to and
through you. And it will require that you take a step into what could be called
being a bit more public and being a source of what is called, the leading role,
the channel — that's an oddity since everything is channeled anyway.

There is a bit of a hesitancy born of a fear that tends to override that, and
your friends cannot really truly give to you... shall we say, show their faces,
until that sense of fear is gone. So, how to do that?

Give up striving for the memories to come by acknowledging that you do not need
them because they only represent what was true anyway. That is, this experience
is real and these friends that come seemingly from a place or universe, come
from that place you call your home. And begin to acknowledge that you don't
need the memories because you know the Truth and it is, therefore, safe to
allow the communication to take place. But these are ones you can trust
perfectly. They come with great Love and great wisdom.

So I am asking you just to shift the perspective slightly so that you see the
memory as not being of great significance, but being okay if it occurs, and
placing your primary focus on the reality of this Truth: you have come here to
assist in bringing some communications through to this world and to others,
which is, in a sense, set up and the contract signed, and you beamed yourself
down. The connection has never really been broken. The time frame for your
communication is now coming into place and you hold the ability to, shall we
say, tune to their frequency and to hear them, and you will hear them as
thoughts in the mind before you begin to, shall we say, see them with your
internal eyes. The point when you can begin to see them as well, then memories
will begin to come back very gently and easily, because a little wall of fear
will have been dissolved.

First, then, relax. Don't strain so much or effort so much. And above all, do
not carry the thought that you are somehow failing — because you are not. But
when a thought arises about all of this, take a nice deep breath and say to
yourself, "Of course." That's all. "Of course. I allow it." Then if you can, in
the right environment sit down with a pad of paper and pen, and you will begin
to feel a movement or a desire just to write. Just do so. Don't worry about
what it says for now. Just let yourself write because this will be the initial
and primary way that they will communicate with you. Those with whom they need
to communicate will have an uncanny way of simply finding you, and you, them.
So you've come to do a little bit of what is called channeling. It's simply
part of a grander design. But begin in the way that I have suggested so that
the seeds are planted well. They are quite anxious to begin the process. In
that simple shift of energy, through the process of growing..…and just sitting
down with pen and paper, already will greatly accelerate the time in which you
can both see and hear and communicate with them at ease, whenever it's safe.
Going to give it a try?

*Absolutely.*

And also, be very good to yourself. You can no longer afford to entertain
thoughts that somehow you are getting in the way or that you don't have the
ability to do that. Remember, "Of course."

Say "Hello" to them.

*Thank you very, very much.*

You are very, very welcome.

Beloved friend, have you not chosen this incarnation to truly feel the weights
that have been upon the heart for some time? To again draw to yourself, in this
life, certain experiences and certain energies so that this time you can choose
not to allow that to be as your master, the emotions that come with that. This
incarnation, then, primarily has been one of very deep healing for you. We both
know that it hasn't been easy at times, but you could say you've chosen to take
a condensed version.

Primarily, then, the energy you brought to this incarnation is one of being
willing to put up with some things and some experiences and some energies so
that it brings up for you the opportunity to draw on a deeper power —
forgiveness —   so that you can move beyond these things.

Remember always that no matter what the form is, ultimately the purpose of all
experience is to learn to love purely and to experience and renew your
recognition that you are unlimited forever and that you are the Thought of Love
in form. That recognition and remembrance can occur upon this little tiny Earth
in this time frame or in a completely distant world and a seemingly totally
different dimension of experience. Awakening is awakening no matter what form
you seem to be in when it occurs.

I say this only to you, beloved friend, because I want you to begin to set
aside wholly the thought that there is something that you've failed to do,
something that you must look for outside of yourself. There are many things you
can do but, remember, the primary purpose is your healing, through your
forgiveness and the remembrance of the power you have to choose peace and joy
at all times. That is why you are here.

You carry a great beautiful Light and that Light — there are times you don't
want to see it—is shining more and more brightly as each minute passes, and
nothing will stop that Light from extending itself and its radiance. You are,
indeed, worthy of wanting the weights that have been upon the heart to be
dissolved... now. Remember always that you are loved wholly and you are never
alone.

The completion of what you have chosen will come to pass. Continue well,
friend, to love yourself above all things   and all memories. Know that the
Light is in you, now.

You see, this life for you is much like one who wants to have a nice garden and
looks out and sees, "Well, winter has gone. Oh, my God, I have some work to do.
A lot of weeds. Clear out the blackberries." Much like that, you've chosen this
incarnation, which is like choosing to step out of the house and go to the
garden plot, put on the work gloves and go at it — instead of staying in the
house by the warm fire and a cup of tea, and put it off until tomorrow. You
have not put off the final process of your being. But that is why the end is
certain.

Did you not feel more than hear, did you not feel the heart and essence of what
I have just shared with you?

*Uhhuh.*

Trust always what you feel at that level. Does that help you?

*I think so.*

In the coming weeks, if you contemplate what has been shared with you, certain
rather sudden shifts are going to begin to occur. Imagine being in a room when
suddenly the shade that has been pulled releases itself — as they are wont to
do — rolls itself up very, very quickly, so that the ray of light shines
through the window. This is the kind of shade I am talking about. There will be
some illumination; some "Ah ha's" will occur. Are you ready for that?

*Yeah, I think so.*

Don't spend so much time thinking. 

*Jeshua. I have a question about forgiveness. I know how important forgiveness
is. I've been thinking about forgiving myself but I feel like I'm missing
something, like intellectually I say I need to do this and then I don't feel it
on an emotional level. So I feel like there is something missing, and I want to
know why, or some information that&hellip;*

One thing: that which is called the fireworks and the brass bands.

*Yes.*

Yes, that is what you are missing. Missing it not because you don't have it,
but because you believe in the need for it. When you choose truly to allow
healing to come, it comes of itself and in its own way. And you have not been
able to understand what that would look like or feel like because if you had,
you would have done it a long time ago. Do you see?

You are doing quite well in extending forgiveness, especially to yourself.
Beloved friend, all that has been unfolding for you in these past few months
actually has come about because of a radical shift you made in the depth of
your soul in which you truly chose to release judgment of yourself.

Now, I want to share with you that you must witness and experience the miracles
that the Holy Spirit can bring about through you — which means not here just in
things that you do to others, but things that unfold in your own life, these
things that occur — so that you can begin to see and acknowledge that the
miracle must have already occurred within you. It is like if there is no
foundation, the house can't be built, but you look and say, "Well, where there
was no house now there is a new house. That must mean that someone constructed
the foundation." Do you see?

You gave forth that little bit of willingness and chose to relinquish your
judgment of yourself. You, in your own way, stood up and said, "Yes." And what
has been unfolding for you rather rapidly since then is the demonstration that
the workers are building the house — which means that those that came prior and
built the foundation, now unseen, have already completed their work. You
haven't missed anything save to wholly enjoy the house that is being built by
appreciating that it represents that the miracle has occurred within you. 

Therefore, merely say to yourself daily, "It is finished in me”, and give
thanks to the One Who steals in while you are sleeping and gathers the cobwebs
of shadows outgrown and removes them from you — the One called the Holy Spirit.
And since that has already occurred, there is really little left for you to do
then save have a rollicking good time at the time — as you have been doing, as
I have observed. 

Does that help you understand your question about forgiveness?

*Yes.*

You see, it is not in your expectations of what it ought to feel like or should
feel like. It is in the witnessing of how what you would call your outer life
begins to shift and change almost without any effort or attention on your part
at all.

Surprises and miracles that teach you, "My God, I'm not the doer and maker
after all. Something must have changed because I'm sure not the one making all
this happen."

So keep enjoying.

*Thank you.*

*I'm going to North Carolina and I was wondering, do I have a purpose or a
reason to go there?*

Ultimately, you have the same purpose that you have had in every dream and
drama you have ever created from the standpoint of separation from God. I'm not
saying that this journey is one coming forth from that same perception, but
that in all the dreams you have ever made in the field of space and time your
only purpose has been to awaken, to be the presence of Love and to be wholly
joyous.

Do you have a purpose in this journey? It is the same: to take with you your
knowingness that you are not apart from God at any time and you cannot help but
be in the right place at the right time. With that understanding, with the
desire to be wholly joyous, having recognized that the miracle has occurred
within you, what you are going to be asked to do there quite naturally unfolds
for you. A few surprises, by the way, but pleasant ones.

*Thank you.*

In your journey don't forget to ring me up now and then.

*I certainty will.*

*I was recently in this bazaar and since then I feel something is haunting
me,&hellip; a lot of time at night, I can't quite describe it, but it feels like
other energies are coming into my house, I would say entities. And I’m
feeling powerless, like there’s something wrong with me and I don’t know what
to do about these energies.*

Well, it's all quite hopeless. You might as well throw-in the towel. I'll tell
my Father that He has made a mistake in creating you and somehow forgot to
place the same power in you as He placed within me. He will look upon you and
say, "Defective." 

{Laughter}

Beloved friend, remember that what you fear, you attract. The intensity of
fearing consistently over a period of time attracts some form of the experience
here. It is one reason that even your therapists know that your self-talk is
rather important.

Now, there is no entity outside of you that can harm you at any time — at any
time — and cannot even begin to communicate with you unless you leave the back
door open. I will indeed assist you in the ending of this fear. I cannot do it
wholly for you because that would be to usurp your freewill. It would also be
to disempower you by convincing yourself that you are right, you don't have the
power. You see? So that even if I could come to you and eradicate the fear, it
would not prove valuable because the thought would remain with you. That is
never the goal.

Now, this therefore requires your participation and I am going to suggest to
you that the greatest of ways to conquer any monster is by kissing it on its
lips. How to kiss this presence? When you are in your apartment at night and
it's soon time to be going to bed, so that the distractions are gone — the
telephone calls are put off, the television is off, the radio is off, the
stereo is off, the refrigerator door is closed, all of the distractions are
gone — and you are but with yourself in that silence, before you enter your
bed, I want you to sit in a chair and I want you to have one candle that you
will light. And I want you to place it before you on a table, on the edge of a
chair, something, so that it's close to eye level — whatever works best for you
— and I want you to look at that light and I want you to feel that light as
though it were within you. With your physical eyes I want you to see the glow
of light that that flame casts as its aura that you can see around the flame,
and feel that light as being within yourself, casting that kind of radiance,
moving out in all directions.

Do this until you feel as though there were a radiant, golden light cocoon,
caused by the radiance of this light, that moves so far out of it that it
envelops the whole of your body and your mind, your emotional field. As you do
that then, as you come to that point, as you look at the flame, allow there to
be in your inner eyes — your physical eyes are looking at the flame — an image
of me. Don't get too critical about it; just let it be there. 

When you see the image of me, say to me, "Abide with me this night and I am
safe." That is all. And just say “Thank you" to me, and as you blow the flame
of the candle out, so that darkness comes to your room, as you blow the candle
out, feel the light of the flame that is within you and the golden cocoon, and
simply lay yourself in your bed and your head upon your pillow, and then say,
"Jeshua is indeed with me now and I am safe." Rest assured, you will be quite
safe. You could say I know how to guard the fort well and there will not be a
penetration, if you will, of limiting or unhealthy or hurtful thoughts — grey
thoughts, let us call them — that will come to you in your sleep, and your
sleep will be safe and sound.

If you will but do this, it will not take long for you to notice that that
sense of presence is no longer in your home. Willing to give it a try?

*Uh huh. Definitely.*

Now, I could have said to you that if you would call upon me, you will simply
exorcise the demon, but you wouldn't have quite bought it that way. And yet,
this process I have given you really is, in a sense, a form of exorcism because
a certain quality of fear that has been within you, at the unconscious level,
has created a bit of an opening where there is indeed a presence hanging
around. I would not call it evil. I would just say, a little dense. Do you see?
So the process itself is actually going to help heal. That's the part you do.
The part that I do is, because of your willingness, I will be able to come to a
deep place in your mind and help eradicate the source of the fear that left the
back door open a little bit. Fair enough?

So, I will be seeing you in the flame of your candle. How are you all doing? 

*Okay. Good.*

So, with that, let us bring this evening to a close. As we do that, I want to
ask you something. I want to ask you to join with me for just a few moments.
Move the body around just a little bit. Allow the breath to flow. And rest now
into a deep sense of silence. Not just the silence that is heard with the
physical ears because nobody is talking, but hear with the heart the silence
that is always present and available. And choose to join with me now, to
actually know that you can join Jeshua ben Joseph or with anyone in that place
of sacred silence in which we remember the Truth that sets us free.

We are not apart from the loving Mind of God, and where we are, we are joined
together eternally. All praise, then, be given unto the One Who is but Love and
Who lives in each of us and makes Himself known with every loving thought that
you choose to think, and every smile and every embrace, and every moment of
forgiveness that we extend to the world. For in Love is the Source of Love
remembered.

Feel that peace both descend upon you and radiate from you until it seems to
expand out and embrace everyone in this room. You are the bringer of Light. You
are the bringer of peace. You are the one who can extend the Love that will
heal the heart of your brother and of your sister. The Light is in you now.

Peace be, therefore, unto you, my precious friends, whom I have loved from the
foundations of all worlds. Peace be unto you in all things. Peace be unto you
in all things.

Amen. 

