---
title: "Ignorance is Bliss"
received: "Sep 1994"
fb:
  image:
  - "wom/ign.jpg"
---

Now, we begin.

And once again, greetings unto you beloved and *precious* friends.

Is it not true that wherever you look, whether within you or around you, there is
but the Face of Mystery shining back at you? For from the very first, have you ever
truly known what a single thing is or what it is for? Yet the thoughts within your
mind, your perceptions of things, both within and around you, would lead you to
believe that you do indeed know what a thing is and what it is for.

You would look upon an object such as a chair and *you* decide what that
object is and what it is for. You would look upon the rain that falls
from the clouds and you would decide what that thing is and what it is
for. Indeed, you would look upon your brother and sister and &ndash;
perceiving something about them or relating their presence to some past
history you have had with them &ndash; you would decide who and what
they are and *what they are for*. And when you decide what a thing or a
person is for, you then become justified in using that thing or person
according to *your perception*. You would look upon a chair and decide:
because it is a chair it must be for sitting and I will therefore sit
upon it. You would look upon the rain as it falls and, deciding that it
is called &lsquo;rain&rsquo;, immediately the mind decides what rain is,
where it has come from, and what it is for. You therefore act
accordingly.

And yet, even this is not quite consistent. For a farmer would look upon
the rain and see it much differently than what you call an athlete
playing upon a field on a Saturday afternoon, or a family preparing to
go upon a picnic. Therefore, what is it that decides *for you* what a
thing is and what it is for? Consciousness, the nature of the mind, is
very slippery indeed, and it requires great vigilance to learn to see
&ndash; to comprehend, to transcend, to grasp &ndash; how consciousness,
the nature of mind, is operating through you, through the body, through
the body&rsquo;s senses, *in relationship to all created things.*

But we&rsquo;ll take a slight shortcut. For the things that you look
upon when you decide what a thing is and what it is for, you have
*projected* your value system upon these things. Something is already
operating in the depth of your consciousness that stimulates an impulse
which requires you to shape your experience of what you see and what you
believe these things are for to fit what you must value in the moment.
Always, then, what you *truly* experience is not the thing in itself,
not what it may or may not be for within itself &ndash; you experience
only the boundaries of your own mind. Nothing more. And nothing less.

There are many who look upon the rain as it falls and see not just that
which nurtures the soil which will grow the plant, or they see not that
which is interrupting their Sunday excursion to the park, they do not
necessarily see that this will change the texture of the grasses and the
soil so that the athlete might have to slip and fall upon his rear-end
occasionally &ndash; but rather they look not with the physical eyes and
they look with a mind that is not attached to any specific need of their
own, and they have learned to ask the Mystery of Creation: What is this
thing? And what is it for? And they have come to see that rain itself,
to use an example, is *symbolic* of Consciousness and Creation itself.
They look upon even a chair or a person or a blade of grass, and they
look past the perceptions they have *learned*, to inquire directly what
this thing is and what it is for.

And resting in the purity of Mind, resting in the neutrality of Mind, a
different process occurs. For there is no impulse arising from within
their own separative consciousness, their own individual mind, their own
egoic state of being &ndash; believing they need something and therefore
the world becomes that which fulfills what they need &ndash; they
therefore project no value upon what they see, but they await a value to
be given from some source deeper than the mind associated with personal
history and with the body itself. And from that deep neutrality of Mind
something indeed is revealed. And yet what is revealed is not of the
world, for what is revealed is a *Radiance*, the reflection of a grand
Mystery, a *symbol* of the laws of consciousness itself in its universal
rather than its personal nature.

The rain becomes that which brings sustenance to creation. The rain
becomes a symbol of how gently and easily the grace of a Perfect Love
descends and is given to any who would but receive it. The rain becomes
a symbol of that which is purely innocent, yet gives itself to be
perceived and experienced as the receiving mind would choose.

Likewise, a person is not looked upon according to his or her history,
is not looked upon according to whether or not the body is pretty enough
to be taken to bed for sex. The body is not looked upon as being large
enough or strong enough to bowl over several smaller bodies and then you
will give them a contract with big golden coins. A person is not looked
upon as something which is (what is your word?) utilitarian &ndash; that
is, able to perform a certain function, able to fulfill some need for
yourself. And therefore what begins to shine forth through that person,
your brother or sister, is not their individuality &ndash; that is, not
their foibles, not their personality structure &ndash; but Light, but
the presence of the mystery of Consciousness itself which arises as a
gentle wave from the ocean of Mind that is without beginning and without
end.

Why is this important? Because as you go through your day you believe
you are directly experiencing *what is*, and you are absolutely certain
that what is is *outside of you* &ndash; the person, the chair, the
rain, any perceived thing is outside of you. You have not yet truly
learned to understand, to comprehend deep in the cellular structure of
the body itself. For the body is a knowing mechanism. It is the way in
which you attract energy to yourself. It is that through which you
project the energy of your mind. It&rsquo;s the meeting place of inner
and outer, just as the skin is the meeting ground of what is within and
what is without.

You believe that what you are perceiving and therefore knowing is
something outside of you that is etched in stone: it is defined, it is
complete, and you know it. And yet again, I say unto you, *not in any
moment whatsoever* do you ever see or perceive *anything* except that
which you project *upon it* until, through the use of vigilance and
mastery of the Keys of the Kingdom of Desire, Intention, Allowance, and
Surrender, until the mind is retrained to rest at peace, wanting
nothing, needing nothing, knowing not what a single thing is or is for
&ndash; only then does the mind become capable of receiving a higher
knowing, a higher intuition. Only then does the body begin to
restructure itself so that its deeper, more latent possibilities arise
&ndash; called third sight for one, to begin to perceive an object
through the senses of the body, to *feel* a color, to hear an object
that the ears cannot hear. The body itself is an incredible mechanism
for joining with and experiencing all of creation.

But what blocks you from being able to hear a color is what you are
choosing to project upon creation by deciding that you already know what
a thing is and what it is for. Hmm. That is my pet and my pet is to give
me companionship, it is to please me; and if therefore the pet acts in a
way that is not pleasing, anger arises and the world is a mess. This one
is my employee and my employee is a utilitarian device to assist me in
doing what I think I must do to create money to survive, as much of it
as I can. And therefore when the employee says, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m going
through some sort of spiritual crisis and I won&rsquo;t be able to be in
on Wednesday morning,&rdquo; immediately frustration arises because what
the employer values is the production of the useless items of your
culture (by and large) and therefore there is something wrong with the
employee and perhaps we should replace *this thing* that does not seem
to understand what it is and what it is for.

How many times in each of your days do you believe that that which you
perceive around you is not fulfilling its function? Which means, of
course, that it&rsquo;s not quite fitting in to what *you* have
projected upon it.

How often in each of your relationships are you *so certain* that the
other has forgotten their place, and is therefore disrupting your world?
And yet how often have you truly learned to *forgive yourself* for what
you have believed your brother or sister is and what they&rsquo;re for?

How many times have you relinquished your own ideas of what Creation is
and what it is for, to rest into that place of neutrality where
one&rsquo;s own ignorance is accepted and embraced and loved and trusted
&ndash; that place in which there is a suspension of the projection of
your own valuation?

How often in any given day do you rest in the peace that forever passes
all understanding and ask of something unseen:

> What is this for? What is the meaning and purpose of this moment? What
> would you have me see shining through the chair &hellip; the rain
> &hellip; my brother and my sister?

For I say unto you, the eye of the needle is found at the source of your
own consciousness. The way to a spiritual life is not found outside of
you, but within you, deep within the core of everything you have built
up around the simplicity of an innocent mystery called Creation.

The way to peace, the way to a miraculous life, lies not in insisting
that the world conform to what you have believed it is for and what you
have believed about yourself &ndash; but rather, in relinquishing all of
the ideas you have learned, in relinquishing even the belief that you
exist, in relinquishing the belief that you must continue into the next
moment as a physical being, to look upon the most primary perceptions
you carry as a consciousness that is having a third-dimension, or
physical, experience, to relinquish *all of them* upon the altar of your
heart and to own wholly your *complete* ignorance. For only a mind thus
emptied of itself can be taught anew.

The way to peace in life, the way to mastery, the way to union with all
of Creation  &ndash; indeed the way to a perfect and completed
Christedness &ndash; lies not in trying to make or do, but in mastering
the art of relinquishing, the art of resting in the humility and
innocence of a divine unknowing.

> Father, that which is the Source and Creator of all, that which
> pervades all things, mystery shining forth from mystery, I know not
> what a single thing is or what it is for. I thought I did yesterday,
> and even in the last moment, but now I choose to relinquish all things
> and rest in that Perfect Peace whereby, perhaps, I will be shown how
> to perceive and therefore to experience anew.

Herein is the path of power.

Power in your world means to manipulate, to control, to get what you
want. But I say this unto you: Are you sure that you *know* what you
want? Or what you want, is this not resting on what you *believe* you
must *have*? And what you must have, is this not a belief in perception
that rests on your *prior determination* about what the world is and
what you are? If you do not know yourself, how can you know what you
need and what you want?

Therefore, beloved friends, we would begin to ask of you to be
determined to utilize your experience of each moment as an opportunity
to bring vigilance to the mind by *choosing* to acknowledge *your
complete state of ignorance* in each and every moment. For he who says
that he &ldquo;knows&rdquo; probably knows not. And he that says
&ldquo;I know that I know not&rdquo; probably knows.

Contemplate that phraseology, for within it is much wisdom. The first is
the expression of the consciousness of the world. For all you need do is
sit upon a park bench and watch your world drive by and walk by, and
everybody knows what they&rsquo;re doing, where they&rsquo;re going, why
&ndash; and of course it&rsquo;s important. But only that one that knows
he knows not rests for a moment upon the park bench and says,

> Father, what would this day be? Teach me. Show me. I know nothing.

For the one who knows nothing rests in humility and then is free to
marvel at that which he or she is guided to do and that which is
*revealed* to their consciousness.  For only when the mind is released
from projecting can it become an empty vessel in which it can receive
the radiance of a mystery shining forth from the Mind of God through
each and all created things.

The way of awakening, then, is the way of acknowledgement of one&rsquo;s
*perfect ignorance*. The way of peace requires the relinquishing of
*all* of one&rsquo;s ideas. For only then can the mind be taught anew.

So, let&rsquo;s begin with something quite simple. Just where do you
think you are right now? Think about it for a moment and be honest with
yourself. When you sat down and placed this tape within your little
machine, were you not already operating from a place of consciousness
that said:

> I know exactly what I&rsquo;m doing. I&rsquo;m in my house. I&rsquo;m in
> my car. The weather is such-andsuch. I only have so much time and oh my
> goodness, shouldn&rsquo;t the government be doing this and
> shouldn&rsquo;t that be happening? What about that athletic event? What
> a dummy to fall on his butt because it was raining, and now the game is
> lost, and therefore I&rsquo;m depressed.

All of these things are going through your mind. You put the tape in and
you&rsquo;ve already decided you&rsquo;re going to hear something that
either will uplift you or make you think. Perhaps you&rsquo;ve already
decided that you&rsquo;re going to be hearing me communicating through
this, my beloved brother &ndash; rest assured, in the future you will
have some surprises. You have already decided what is before you begin
it.  You have already decided how to approach the experience: by turning
on your thinking analytical mind so that you hear the words in the
sentences and therefore believe that you will come to understanding.

But I say unto you, there are some among you who have learned how to
move into ignorance and innocence. And when these words are spoken, you
do not so much hear them as see pictures. You feel them rather than
think about them. You receive insight from the silence between the
words. You feel a transmission of energy that you could not ever explain
to anyone because it has nothing at all to do logically with the
formation of little sounds you call words to which you have already
ascribed meaning. Although you seem to be listening to a tape, you are
already in a quality of consciousness that transcends the normal process
of listening and analyzing and drawing conclusions.

It has been said that the meek will inherit the earth. What does that
word truly mean, then? The meek are those who have learned the futility
of their learning.  The meek are those who know and accept that there is
only Mystery arising. The meek are those who know they are not what they
thought they were. The meek are those who wait in each moment for
revelation to occur. The meek are those who smile at the futility and
insanity of acting in the world as *if* they knew what a thing is and
what it&rsquo;s for. They wait on divine consciousness. They wait on the
purity that emanates from the Source of Being that can shine through
them and reveal to them, moment to moment, what the purpose of any
moment is.

Any master, any true master, is one of the meek. For mastery does not
rest on the accumulation of knowledge. Mastery rests in divine
ignorance, in which true knowledge shines forth &ndash; the knowledge
that would radiate through your mind from the mind of God, the knowledge
that would enlighten even the sensory mechanisms of the body so they
receive what is being transmitted from all created objects in ways that
transcend ordinary knowing and seeing and hearing.

So look around you, right where you are. You think you know what time it
is and therefore perhaps you think you&rsquo;re supposed to still be in
bed. You know what time it is and so perhaps you are supposed to be
hurrying out the door to get to some kind of a job that you *think* is
going to provide you with what you *want*, because what you *want* is
linked to what you *think you need*, and what you *need* is linked to
your *belief* that you must survive into the next moment in a certain
way of lifestyle. Or perhaps you believe that if you did not have that
job that the whole universe would collapse around you and not support
you whatsoever and therefore, of course, reality is that you must be on
your way out the door to get to your specific job, even if that job is
not your heart&rsquo;s desire. Do you see how it all works?

Somewhere in the depth of your mind you have taken on perceptions about
what things are and what they are for, including your body, your mind,
your thoughts, your feelings. And from these, deeply embedded, deeply
habituated, you have decided what you *need* to fit what you *believe*
to be true. And from what you *need* you project impulses of what you
*want*. And what you want determines how you will see every object and
every person and every drop of rain and every wisp of cloud and every
chair around you. But again I say unto you, meekness truly begins with
the complete recognition that *you don&rsquo;t know* what you truly
want, unless you have come to a place where there is a silent voice
calling within that says to you,

> I want God. I want Peace. I want to come Home.

Earlier I asked you if you knew where you were, and I say this unto you:
If you believe you&rsquo;re sitting in a chair, if you believe you know
what time it is, if you believe you know what this day is to mean for
you, you do not know where you are. *You literally do not know where you
are.*

Would it not be wise if you&rsquo;re going to act in any given day, to
at least begin to contemplate the simplicity of the question:

> Is it not wise to first know where I am, before I decide what I will do?

The human mind believes it knows where it is, and yet where it is is
within the complex of insane notions and fearful perceptions it has made
in error to replace the simplicity of the reality of being in the Mind
of God &ndash; unlimited forever, totally supported and provided for in
each moment.

If you knew where you were, truly, if all of humanity knew where it was,
the world as you know it would *stop dead in its tracks* and soon cease
to be. That which is called Wall Street wouldn&rsquo;t even open in the
mornings. No one would go to the great halls of government. Many of you
would never step foot in what you call an automobile again.

Do you know what would occur? First, there would be a delight in waking
to watch the first rays of light shine forth from the sun, mystery of
mysteries, and to begin to touch the gentleness of the earth. Your
delight of the morning would be to discern the subtle qualities of how
light changes the coloration of the world around you. And you would tune
in and *feel* the vibratory quality of how nature around you begins to
wake up with each coming day. You would hear the sound of a leaf coming
to life in the morning, not through the ears, but through the very skin
of your body. You would delight in allowing your awareness to touch and
caress and embrace each created thing in that moment. Perhaps you would
be moved to plant seeds within the soil, or perhaps to harvest what you
have previously planted. You might be called to join with your neighbors
in singing and dancing, or in quiet prayer. You would be so amazed at
what is unfolding around you, within you, that your mind would not be
able to analyze, compare, contrast and judge. You would be too blown
away by the incredible, powerful mystery that Creation is and you would
know beyond all doubt that this day you will be provided *all* that you
need and that your daily bread will come to you. &lsquo;Daily
bread&rsquo; is not just what you stuff down the mouth of the body. It
is emotional nurturance.  It is play. It is laughter. It is fulfillment.
There are many levels of daily bread. And yet it falls upon your
shoulders like the drops of a soft spring rain without ceasing, manna
from Heaven. You would be so immersed in the contemplation of the
Mystery of God, who is but Love, that never would a fearful thought
arise, never would a judgmental thought arise, never, never would you
actually believe that you know what a thing is and what it is for. You
would delight in allowing these things to be revealed to you.

And so I ask you to compare that definition, that picture, with how
humanity lives, and then ask yourself:

> Does humanity know where it is? Do I know, as a part of humanity,
> where I am? Am I willing in this moment to completely relinquish all
> ideas I have ever had about what anything is and what it&rsquo;s for
> and therefore what its meaning is, what its usefulness is?  Can I
> choose to rest in the place of neutrality and to allow something
> beyond myself to teach me anew?

So, if you are standing, I want you to sit, and if you&rsquo;re sitting,
remain where you are &ndash; now that that phrase has new meaning. Truly
*feel* the fabric of the object you are sitting upon. *Feel it*! Open up
the cells of the body and allow the vibrational quality of where you are
sitting to penetrate into your beingness. Let the skin be an organism
for hearing and not just for feeling. Can you hear the note being sung
by the thing upon which you are sitting? All things contain
consciousness, or life.  For all of creation is but Life itself, and
therefore there is wisdom and intelligence radiating through each and
every created form. Feel the quality of vibration. Does a color come
into your mind? Not the color of the fabric, necessarily, but the color
of the vibration represented by this object. Is it a color that you
like? Does it feel good where you are? Rest assured if it does not, get
rid of that object and give it to someone else in need, and procure for
yourself that which creates the vibration that brings you a pleasure
beyond the ego.

Begin to bring into your life those things, whether a chair, whether a
flower, whether a pen, the color of paper that you use, let all things
begin to reflect and exude toward *you* that which reminds you of the
infinite creativity, the infinite loveliness, the infinite quality of
vibration of peace and beauty and mystery &ndash; the quality of
God&rsquo;s Presence. If you now have clothing upon your body, feel it
for just a moment. Feel the fabric of the clothing on your body. Who
told you you needed to wear that? Who told you you needed that color or
that style? Does it truly resonate with you? Does it feel natural? Does
it come from the earth or has man made up his own fabric that you now
place upon the body. For I say unto you, that which has not come forth
from nature, left untampered, blocks certain frequencies that are
emitted from the natural world, from your Mother Earth.  Therefore it is
always wise to use the most natural of fabrics upon the body.

Does it express beauty and wholeness to you or is it something that you
&ldquo;made do&rdquo; with because it saved you golden coins? And if you
buy something to save you golden coins, are you not telling yourself
that you live in a universe of lack and you have no power within
yourself to bring abundance into your life? And if you have no power to
bring abundance into your life, are you not saying that your Creator has
created you limited and unworthy of Creation? *Everything you see around
you in this moment is a reflection and a symbol of what you have
believed is true about Creation and about yourself.*

Well I didn&rsquo;t mean to become quite so forceful, but it is time for
the truth to penetrate consciousness, for soon the earth will no longer
tolerate any vibration of consciousness that does not radiate and
resonate with light and beauty and freedom and innocence and play and
unlimitedness. Therefore, if you would change the world, change your
mind. And if you would change your mind, relinquish all of your own
ideas.

For those of you in relationship, or those of you that can create a
relationship, even if you must run an ad and say that you pay ten
dollars of your golden coins per day for someone to be a temporary
friend &ndash; in other words, if you can find another to be in a
relationship with &ndash; a very valuable exercise is just this:

Sit with someone. Look into each other&rsquo;s eyes. Place the hands
upon whatever you&rsquo;re sitting on, possibly the floor or chair,
whatever, look into each other&rsquo;s eyes; and each of you admit to
the other the truth about yourself. What will first happen is that you
will begin to say,

> Well, my name is so-and-so and I live in such-and-such a place and I
> had these parents, and oh my God, and I have these skills&hellip;

None of that is the truth of who you are. The truth of who you are is
that you don&rsquo;t know who you are, you don&rsquo;t know what
you&rsquo;re for. You are in a state of *complete divine ignorance*. And
you can prove it to yourself in this way. Look upon the person sitting
across from you for at least two or three minutes and then tell them the
thought that is occurring in their mind in this moment. You&rsquo;ll
find that 99.9999999 percent of the time you are totally wrong. Ask them to
do some gesture, to change the body language, and then tell them what
they are trying to express.  You will discover again that they can fool
you any time they want. Do you know what a thing is and what it&rsquo;s
for? Do you really know what&rsquo;s occurring in any given moment? My
reply to you is that you do not, as long as you are relying on your own
thoughts and ideas.

After doing this exercise with each other for a few moments, then
practice resting in the neutrality of your own ignorance.

> Father, I know not what a thing is or what it is for.

Then ask the other person to hold a certain thought within their mind.
It could be a picture of a pink elephant. It could be anything. And as
you rest in your ignorance, giving up all hope of knowing what is, what
it&rsquo;s for, what needs to be communicated, you might just find that
you begin to realize that some idea is being predominant in your mind.
It could be outlandish. It could be a pink elephant. And then simply say
to your friend,

> I think you&rsquo;re holding the thought of a pink elephant, or that
> your body language is conveying a certain thought.

Through this practice you will refine your ability to receive knowledge
in a new way. And as you refine that you will find yourself in a state
of what is called Cosmic Consciousness, or Christed Consciousness, where
you have so mastered the relinquishing of your own ideas that what is
truly real and what holds purpose in the moment is revealed into your
consciousness moment by moment by moment, even it concerns someone
who&rsquo;s on the other side of the planet. And then when you ask
within,

> What should I do with this?

the Holy Spirit tells you, and you will know when to speak and when not
to speak, when to act and when not to act. Resting into the quiet of
your own unknowing allows Life to reveal itself through you and to you.
But what is revealed will not be perceived as your own and you will
understand that you can taken no credit for what unfolds through you.
And you will say as I once said,

> Why do you call me good even when miracles are done through me? There
> is none good but God. I am but a channel of the Mystery of Life. I am
> empty. There is no one at home.

And when there is no one, there is everyone. <br/>
And when there is nothing, there is everything. <br/>
And when you are empty, you shall be filled. <br/>
And when you are at peace, you will know the meaning of power.<br/>
And when you want nothing, you will have all things. <br/>
And when you need nothing, you will know the meaning of freedom.

Beloved friends, contemplate well what is shared this day, for it is
time to truly bring vigilance to the mind. Recognize that as you go
through your day everything you *think you perceive* is a reflection of
where you have *allowed* your consciousness to reside, either in the
attitudes and beliefs that you have learned in the world, which will
show you only what is insanely unreal, or in the quiet neutrality and
peace of your divine and perfect ignorance.

We will spend much time together, moving more deeply into this
understanding and into that which helps facilitate your return to
ignorance. For consider this: The meek are the masters of creation and
yet they seem to know nothing at all. And each and every moment of their
existence is given over to the practice of the Keys of the Kingdom,
desiring only perfect union with God, setting the intention of
relinquishing all ideas of their own, practicing the key of allowing,
resting into neutrality so that life might reveal itself to them and
through them.

And finally, surrendering every trace of belief that there&rsquo;s
something inside your body called &lsquo;yourself&rsquo; that is
uniquely yours and that you must take care of and it must get what it
wants: the hungry little ghost called the ego. Surrender means to awaken
to the reality that there has never been anyone where you are, except
the presence of Christ. When you know yourself, you will know that you
are all things. You&rsquo;ll know that you are empty and that no
one&rsquo;s home, that there is only Life living itself. You will have
learned that it is not by striving but by relinquishing that the Kingdom
is revealed. And you will discover that you&rsquo;ve always been at
home.

Contemplate well these things, then, and by all means bring lightness
and humor to it. Laugh at yourself. Laugh at the self you thought you
were. Whenever you believe you need something to be a certain way, slap
your thigh &ndash; that would be a good use of it at any rate &ndash;
and laugh, and tell yourself,

> My God, I actually thought I needed something to happen in a certain
> way. Hah! The joke is on me.

And then the wisdom of how things are unfolding can reveal itself to
you. And when you know that there is wisdom flowing through the creation
of each moment, you just might make the decision to once again *trust*
Life. And Life is but Love radiating forth from the Mind of God. And
that is where you are sitting right now.

Peace then be unto you, beloved and precious friends.

Amen.

