---
title: "Healing the Illusions of Hurt"
received: "Nov 17, 1992"
---

Indeed, now we begin. 

Greetings unto you, beloved and holy Children of Light divine. Indeed,
greetings unto you, beloved and holy and only begotten Son of God. Please know
that I come with great joy to abide with you in this rather particular and
peculiar way, and I come forth always in joy to abide with you, for when I look
upon you, I see naught but the splendor of a Light so radiant, so vast as to
already outshine all worlds, and I look upon you and see naught but myself —
indeed, the holy and only begotten Son of God. And, in Truth, the Son is
neither male nor female but is that offspring of Light divine. For you are made
in the image of God; therefore, you reflect that which the Father is. And if
God is but Love — and I assure you that He is — so, too, is Love the foundation
of your reality. So, too, is Love your purpose and your function, as it is
mine. 

And if that foundation of your reality is a Love that far transcends all
appearances, if it is indeed a Light and a Love that knows neither beginning
nor end, if it is a Love that is also the foundation of my being, then we are
one. Beyond all appearances. Beyond all birth and death. Beyond all comings and
goings. Beyond all fears and all doubts and all longings and all laments. We
remain as we are created to be: the holy and only begotten Son of God. 

Therefore, understand well that I come not unto you as one who is above you,
but I come to abide with you in this way to demonstrate a Truth that cannot be
taken from us. For indeed where you are, I am. Where you are, I am. And the
only distance that has ever existed between us is the width of a thought, and
no more. What, then, would the width of a thought be? Can you measure it? No,
but you can choose it. 

Therefore, when you choose to abide in and as Love, you have chosen to abide
with me. When you choose fear, you have chosen a thought that separates you
from me. And yet, that separation does not occur in reality, although it does
appear to do so within the construct that I would call your illusion. Each time
that you have known fear, each time that you have tasted anger, each time you
have looked out upon a world and seen a world that is unsafe, you have
forgotten the home in which you abide, eternally, without end. When you look
out and see yourself separate from your brother and sister, when you would look
upon me and some of the very odd ideas that you have been taught about me, and
have believed that I must be someone or something far removed from you, you
have not chosen to look through the eyes of Love. 

When in those moments when the mind has tasted stillness and the heart is open
and you have extended unto yourself and unto the world the whole of your
forgiveness and you have been willing to embrace and trust all, when you have
touched the silence that comes from the depth of the heart, the Holy of Holies,
the temple where the Son and Father abide as One, then indeed you have chosen
Love. You have looked through the eyes of Love and you have looked with me upon
a world that is safe, and you have looked upon your brothers and sisters and
seen them like as ourselves, and you know that in Truth we walk together to
God. 

If God is but Love, it need not be a fearful journey. For in the end of all
journeying, the Son awakens from what then appears to have been nothing more
than a dream. He sees his splendor, and he sees it radiating out to embrace the
whole of creation. He sees it in the smile and in the eyes of everyone that he
comes into contact with. And the Son fulfills his function for he has given up
living as an ego, as a separate self. And he becomes that focal point through
which the Light and the radiance of Love shines forth with every thought and
with every deed, and his or her creations mirror all that the Father is: Love
giving of itself to touch and embrace, uplift and heal creation. 

And yet the extension of that Love never leaves the Son because all things
arise within the mind of the Son of God. And if that is true — and I assure you
that it is — it means that when you extend Love, when you look past all of the
conceptions and perceptions that the world would teach you to believe in, when
you look past even the veil of the body, the veil of histories, and you see the
radiance of the Light of Christ in your brother and sister, you have seen
yourself. And you have embraced all that you are. You have put aside the things
of dreams because the Light of day has returned. 

How then can I be anywhere save with you where you are in each moment and with
each breath? What then has created a world in separation? Thought. Your
thought. What heals the world of separation? Thought. Your holy thought. There
is but a simple choice to be made and it does not require great effort. And
already the preparation is completed, and the choice is simply this: "In this
moment, no matter what the circumstances might be, am I willing to choose Love
or will I choose fear?" For fear begets separation and separation always brings
with it a tinge of guilt. And from guilt the small part of the mind called the
ego, that has taught you to believe you are separate from God, that small part
of the mind that is like a gnat shouting at the vastness of space, "Pay
attention to me," that small part of the mind, to save itself from having to
look upon the face of its own guilt, begins to project outward its fears and
its doubts, and it finds another, it finds a world outside of itself that must
be responsible for its lack of peace. 

I have said before that there is really only one lesson you need to learn, and
it is simply this: “There is nothing outside of you.” Nothing. All heavens and
all hells arise within you, and it is given unto you with all the power beneath
Heaven and Earth to choose in which domain you will abide — in Heaven, or in
hell, if you will. 

Everyone in this room knows what hell feels like. Everyone, everyone you see as
you walk down your streets shares a common experience that you, too, have known
in your own way. Each of your brothers and sisters has known the pain of
abiding in hell. And hell is but a rut created in the mind in which there seems
to be no escape — no hope, no faith — and Love is gone. And yet, and yet, Love
remains with you waiting to be re-chosen. Waiting to be seen again. Waiting to
be extended again. It cannot be taken from you, and above all, Love cannot be
earned. 

There isn't a single thing you could ever possibly do to earn the Love of God.
There isn't a single technique you could ever master that would bring you to a
state of being the creation of God. There is only your willingness to look
closely at all aspects of your experience evenly and to see those things that
reflect to you a fearful choice, perhaps a judgment. And the way that brings
you to where I am, the way that would replace a fearful world with a peaceful
world, is the way in which you begin the simple practice of choosing peace.
What may seem a bit outrageous. No matter what takes place, within you lies the
power to say, "Instead of this, I can choose peace." 

Now, how do I know that that's true? As a man who walked once upon this plane,
I, too, had need of learning what you are learning, what some of you had
already learned that:” I and my Father are One”, and the appearances of this
world hold no power over you, as it held no power over me. My demonstration was
a bit extreme by some standards, and yet it taught me in the end the simple
Truth that death is not real, that the body is not my home, that in Truth my
Kingdom is not of this world. It is not of fear; it is not of doubt; it is not
of limitation or weakness. My Kingdom is a kingdom of perfect peace, of
unlimited wisdom and unlimited strength. Although, paradoxically, when you
abide in the Kingdom, you understand the meaning of these words, "Of myself I
do nothing. My Father through me does all things." I merely get out of the way
and allow Love to pour forth through every cell of my being. And I have learned
that I can gain nothing from the world, and I have learned that the world can
take nothing from me and that my purpose and function is to be that radiant
Presence that allows Love to shine forth to touch the holy place that lives and
dwells within each mind so that it, too, can awaken and look upon me and know
itself. And when that happens — and you have all experienced it in fleeting
moments — when two minds come together and set aside the world, a Light shines
between their eyes and a Holy Instant arises. And the things of the past are
forgotten, and the things of the future are of no concern, and there is a Light
and a power and a Truth and a Love and a remembrance that seems to embrace
those two and they are as one. 

Indeed, precious friends, I have never left you. You could say that I've never
left this plane, this world, this dimension. And I will not until you come with
me. What, then, is the way? It requires great seriousness. It requires astute
practice. You must keep the muscles tight at all times. You must keep the jaw
set. 

{Laughter} 

Don't forget never to eat chocolate. Frankly, I wish they would have had some
of that back then. You must master all ancient texts — ideally, in Aramaic. You
must master all magical techniques. And don't forget a lifetime or two locked
in a solitary cell in a monastery where, of course, you must flog yourself to
beat the devil out of you, wicked thing that he is. 

Or you can do what I learned to do and what I taught as the secret science
given to those that your world has called my disciples, though I looked at them
as friends. 

You can laugh at the world. You can laugh at the ego. You can let not one day
pass by in which you fail to sing, laugh, dance and play and be just a little
bit outrageous. You can wake up in the morning and remind yourself that right
here and right now the appearances of the body and the world do not limit your
union with God for one moment. 

You can remember that you have not come to suffer the world. You have not come
to work out your karma, I believe the word is. You have come forth for the very
same reason, in this very moment, as you were sent forth in the beginning of
moments to do one thing: to celebrate the Truth that "I and my Father are One"
and Love is the only reality that exists. And if somebody else doesn't believe
it, demonstrate it to them by looking past their judgments, by looking past
whatever clever device they might try to knock you off your center. Just love
the devil out of them. 

So, you see, you can imagine when I walked upon this plane that I was not well
liked by those serious-minded theologians — rabbis, they were called at that
time — who had a rather elaborate structure in which their egos could believe
that they were somehow a rung or two up the ladder from all the commoners, and
they alone had the keys to the Kingdom. And, of course, the commoners, poor
wretched souls that they were, had to give away a lot of their “loot”, I
believe you call it. They had to give away a lot of their souls to the rabbis,
to the system of religion in that land in that place in order to have some hope
that God might look upon them with favor. And if they were lucky, He just might
forgive them all of their terrible sins. 

And so I came along and said, ”That is utter nonsense. How could my Father
forgive anyone when He has never condemned them in the first place?" How can
the great Light and Mystery from which all things that are beautiful and
radiant have emerged, that looks upon His one creation, the holy Son of God,
and doesn't even see the fearful dreams that you have lived, sees only the
radiance of the Light and the Love that you are, waiting patiently for you to
acknowledge the Truth of your reality. Can there be any judgment in that? Of
course not. 

Is there then room for forgiveness in God? I say unto you: there is not. For
there can be forgiveness only when there has first been condemnation. And right
where you are, right here and right now, no thought of guilt that you have ever
held about yourself has ever been recognized by God. All He does is love you.
And He waits for you to set aside the guilt that is born from your belief that
you have somehow run out the back door of the Kingdom and separated yourself
from Him — and that is where guilt comes from — He waits for you to set that
perception aside, to throw open the shutters of the heart, to let the mind rest
in peace, and just say to Him, "Okay, I'm done dreaming now. Bestow upon me the
Truth of reality, for I am willing to receive what You have already given me." 

Thank God that in God there is no condemnation. And if that is true — and I
assure you that it is — and if you are made in the image of God, you live in
your right mind when you think like God. And you look upon your brothers and
sisters and no matter what arises, even if it makes you grit your teeth for a
moment, you love them. And you understand that every hurtful act and every
hurtful thought really comes from fear and, therefore, is a cry for help and
understanding and support and healing. 

But there is something just beyond that that I want to share especially with
you in this hour. For upon each of you there has been the imprint of
perceptions that the experiences you have known in this world — whether you
believe in one life or a million is really beside the point — the world has
impressed upon you the perception and therefore the belief that you can be
hurt. The body can be hurt but you are not the body. The ego, oh, indeed, the
ego can be hurt in a million ways and you probably know something about that.
But you are not the ego. To identify yourself with that small and harmless
gnat, flitting about trying to shout at the vastness of space, trying to get
all of the planets and stars to follow its orders — of course it doesn't even
notice the gnat — to identify yourself with that is to have identified yourself
with an illusion.

And if you are not the body and if you are not the ego, rest assured no trace
of hurt has ever remained upon the radiant heart of the Son of God — and that
is who you are. And the way that you can prove that to yourself is by
practicing peace and the extension of Love. For as you choose to extend and
teach only Love, you must therefore learn it. And as you see the miracles that
come from the extension of your Love, you must then learn the miracle has
already occurred within you. For miracles do not flow forth through a mind and
a heart that has not already been healed. 

It's rather important to get that. And if you see that somehow Spirit has
worked through you and brought a miracle to the mind of another, in even what
you might perceive as the smallest of ways, rest assured you are having
reflected to you the reality that grace has already descended upon your own
heart and mind and taken from it the weight of illusions: the belief in the
perception of ancient scars that have been upon you that you've tried to work
out of the body through a thousand bodies. As long as you believe that you have
to work on them, they are going to continue to come up because you are creating
them. 

But through the practice of peace and the extension of Love, indeed every
weight and every shadow will be translated into the power of Light itself. You
are miracle workers, plain and simple. No manual to master. No graduate course
to attend. You are miracle workers every time you think with God and extend and
teach only Love. Nothing else heals. Nothing else brings miracle mindedness.
And if you can do it — and I assure you that you can — that is the reason,
listen carefully, that is the reason miracles were demonstrated through me:
because I looked upon you and saw that the miracle had already occurred. 

In the moment when the Son first held the thought of separation and seemed to
cast himself from the Garden — to use that ancient story — already the Father
had corrected it and a bridge was sent unto the mind of the Son that I have
called the Holy Spirit. And the Holy Spirit is only the part of your mind that
is right and miracle minded and cannot be apart from you. 

And in that moment separation was healed, and the way that you have journeyed
is the way you have chosen and are choosing not to gain Heaven but to remember
that you cannot possibly have ever left it. That which is called the spiritual
adventure is the game of hide and seek. Know you that game? 

How many times have you played it today? "God must be far from me. Oh, I forgot
to meditate this morning. That's it. If only I would just sit there for ten
more minutes every day, I know I'd get it." Seeking can be a fun game but
there's a better one: the game of acknowledging that you have found. The game
in which you lay aside all thoughts of a hurtful past, taken from you because
you've been willing to extend your forgiveness to yourself for ever having
imagined that the world could hurt you. A new game in which you give up your
thoughts and your devices for trying to control reality, and in which you
simply acknowledge, "I am here as a channel of Love. And if that is true and if
my Holy Father through the Holy Spirit knows how to take everything that
mankind has ever created and make into it a stepping-stone that must bring the
whole of creation back to Heaven, then if I want to know my Father's will for
me, I don't have to master any texts. I don't have to stand on my head in a
corner for seven hours, chanting a thousand names of God. All I have to do is
open my eyes. Where am I?" 

If you are in Ashland and if you are in this room this night, you may rest
assured you are exactly where the Love that is God would ask you to be — for no
other purpose than to allow Love to radiate through you until it embraces the
brothers and sisters who have been sent by that same Love to abide with you in
this moment. 

Feel it, then, and allow it. And in this moment take just a moment. Look
around. Look at the one who sits next to you. Look at the one across the room.
Can you let your Love embrace them? Can you see beyond the body? Can you see
beyond the personality? Can you touch the place in which compassion arises
because perhaps for a moment you detect a shadow of a fear or hurt, a bit of
guilt, a doubt? Can you outshine even that and penetrate to the core of their
being and see yourself? 

Ah, indeed. I have never talked or communicated with anybody. I only talk to
myself and only myself can hear me. You are as I am, and I am as you are. And
indeed in this moment when we choose to set aside the roar and the din of an
insane world that seems to revolve through the mind, and abide at peace, when
we allow the simplicity of Love to pour forth through us and envelop everyone
in this room, we have returned and the journey has ended. Peace is returned to
the Mind of Christ, Who shall go out no more from the Father's holy place. 

Wrap your fingers around the jewel that rests in the palm of your hand. Take it
deep within your heart and acknowledge that you are no longer a seeker because
you have found. And you have found because in the deep place within you, if you
would well receive it, you have created this hour in which to be presented with
the opportunity to acknowledge throughout every core and fiber of your being —
which, by the way, has no beginning and no end — that you are quite simply the
Thought of perfect Love in form. 

Never a body. Not a conglomeration of emotions. You are an idea held in perfect
pristine shape in the Mind of God, and rest assured God only has loving
thoughts. Can you feel that then? Right where you are feel the feet of the body
on the floor. Feel, right where you are; look through the body itself. If you
exist right now, you are the Son of God and there is nothing you need do to
earn the Kingdom. All you need do is release your grip on one insane thought:
the thought of separation, and the guilt and the fear that it has engendered
that have created worlds upon worlds and complexity upon complexity, and as
often as you have woven the tapestry of separation, you have worked diligently
to try to unravel it. But each fearful thought seems to add yet another strand,
and so you try to release it, and for a moment the Light of Heaven shines forth
and then a thought arises, "Whew, I'm not worthy of that much Light. Who, me?
The wholly joyous? No, no, no. If I did that, what would people say? They might
frown at me for dancing in the rain." For getting goose bumps when someone
walks around the corner and you just can't wait to hug them. Indeed. 

Darkness frowns upon Light because it fears it. Be you, therefore, not
conformed to the ways of the world but be you, therefore, glad with every
breath, for grace has already come and the light of day is returned. It fills
your soul from the top to the bottom, and through your presence, through your
presence, not mine — there are too many that actually think that because I
don't have a body, they can't see me, they can't hear me, but they can see you
and they can hear you — and through you they can learn that they can look
beyond their own body and their own mind to touch the place of Truth. 

You are the one sent unto this world, even as I was sent into a different one.
You are the one that is the Word made flesh, that came and dwelt among mankind.
And if you would receive it — and please hear this well — you, you are the one
who, out of  infinite compassion, has chosen to walk in the world of
physicality until each of our brothers and sisters recognizes the Truth about
themselves. You are the one that has come forth time and time again to be the
Light of the world. And if that was ever my function, it remains eternally
yours. And if it was ever my ability, it remains eternally your ability. 

All power under Heaven and Earth abides within you. You are the one in whom my
Father remains eternally well pleased. He loves you and He gives unto you the
whole of His Kingdom: peace and wisdom and power and compassion and gentleness
and strength of purpose and of certainty of a divine will. 

Oh, beloved friends, the gifts are in you now. Each time you think a loving
thought, each time you remember to choose Love over fear, rest assured the
whole of creation dances. And every master that abides on many planes beyond
this world is touched by your willingness to remember and live the Truth. For
indeed you will know the Truth and the Truth has already set you free. 

The great glory of the crucifixion, you see, is that it was an illusion and
death is not real. Take, then, down from the walls of your mind any pictures
yet remaining within you of me hanging upon a cross with my ribs sticking out,
blood dripping down the forehead of the body saying, "My God, my God, why has
thou forsaken me?" And join me in the resurrection, for I assure you I live. 

But there's one quirk about me. I can't seem to get rid of it. I am addicted to
having a lot of friends. Friends who will choose to dance with me. Friends who
will choose to sing with me. Friends who will choose to put aside the
perceptions of the world and say, “The heck with that. I think I'd just rather
be the presence of Love." And each moment that you choose that, the Light in
you shines brighter and brighter. Brighter and brighter and brighter, and every
ring of fear that you think still surrounds you, you will walk through with
perfect ease, because it is the extension of your Love that shines so brightly
that melts that ring of fear, and no obstacle will be found in your path for it
will be removed before you ever reach it, if you choose to walk the wide and
open and gentle path of Love. 

You have heard it said that I stand at the door and knock. You might think that
with some of you I have bloodied my knuckles. And that in some of you has
caused a sense of guilt and you have proven to yourself, "See, I can't even let
my old friend Jeshua in. Boy, I can't even find the doorknob anymore." 

There's an interesting thing about time. If you believe that you exist within
it and have failed somehow to open the door, rest assured because I live
outside time, I can outlast you. I can wait. 

Some have come to me and said, "Jeshua, thank you for your patience." Patience
is a characteristic of a mind that is yet in time. And it's a valuable one
indeed. I must confess I have no patience because I have no time. I have all of
eternity, and in that safety and in that Light I have waited. I have waited
long for this hour to be upon the Earth that is now. For though you perhaps see
it not, just beneath the roar and din of the world, minds, what you might
perceive as millions of them, are crying out. They are just about ready to
remember the Word — to use that kind of language. So close. The veil is being
rent from the inside out. 

And actually I have come to your Ashland — where did it get that name. Ash
Land? — I have come because I am on a recruiting mission. You see, I need you
as much as you ever thought you needed me. Because your brothers and sisters
and my brothers and sisters, even when I walk on their street with them and
shout into their ear and they see a flash of someone they've learned to
identify as Christ, and the next moment they go, "Whew. Boy, what an
imagination I have. I actually thought that Christ was walking right next to
me. Can you believe that?" I believe it because I was there. 

But they can't see me and they can't hear me because they've learned to hear
the voice of the world and they've forgotten what my voice sounds like. And
therefore I need you. I need you to be my body, my emotions and my voice. Not
as one who carries something called a Bible under their arms and goes and beats
everybody with it. But as the voice of forgiveness. The voice of compassion.
The voice of right-mindedness. The voice of Truth that has nothing to prove
because the radiance of that voice is its own proof. 

I need you to be the one that your brother and sister can see. That is why
relationship in this world, relationship in this world is the greatest of
blessings. Gone are the days of trying to find God by disappearing to mountain
tops. Gone is the day of seeking to withdraw into some minute point of Light or
something. How can you withdraw into something you've never left? You already
are the Light you've been seeking. 

Here now is the time of Holy Relationship, in which you choose to walk in this
world and yet not be of the world, and to actually practice the outrageousness
of watching the feet of a body, that you have formerly called your own, walk
down the street while the mind is utterly amazed that there is nobody in it
save the Love of Christ. So when you walk into your grocery store and you buy
your vegetables and your chocolate, and you put them on the counter, you
remember that if you would know your Father's will for you, all you have to do
is open your eyes. Who is before you? The grocery clerk who needs Love. Who
needs the Love of Christ. Who doesn't need to be saved because actually they've
never been lost. They just think they have been. They need to feel the radiance
and the warmth of Love. 

Some of you in this room know what it's like to be around what is called a
master or someone called a highly enlightened being or just somebody that you
can't help but love the heck out of because every time you are around them, you
feel all warm inside, and no matter what you say to them or do around them,
they just smile and love you. And something in you opens in their presence and
you feel safe. They are just showing you yourself. And it is given to you to be
the one to deliver that to the grocery clerk or even to what you call the
police officers who don't like you speeding in the Kingdom. 

{Laughter} 

Indeed. You are Light and Light ascends from this world when every trace of
seriousness has been released from it — from the mind and from the heart — when
you have looked well upon the mind and said, "My goodness, I've never figured
anything out. I guess I'll quit thinking," and when you are willing finally to
rest in the innocent vulnerability that all of you have seen in a newborn
child. What is it that draws you to them? Is it not the simplicity of an
innocent vulnerability that makes you put your arms around them? Rock them? And
you look upon them and they at you. And in them you see no trace of judgment of
you. They couldn't care less what name you are carrying. They don't care what
kind of plumbing the body has. There is just a lot of Light shining. 

And so you begin to giggle and “goo” at them a little bit. What brings that
giddiness? The Holy Instant, because you sit with a master in your arms. 

Indeed, become again as a little child and you have entered the Kingdom. It
doesn't mean you have to forget what your social security number is. It means
you look and see a completely safe world, a safe world because nothing arises
by accident and there is no separation between minds. Bodies, of course. It
would be foolish for me to say that bodies can't be separate. We all know they
can. What's incredible is that some people think that bodies can join — so you
try to get them as close as you can. Bodies can never join. Only minds can. And
minds join when they both abide in Love, and then Holy Relationship is
established. And while yet you seem to be in this world, the body becomes a
means of communicating, reflecting a reality that occurs nowhere save in the
minds of God's children. Indeed. 

So, reach across to the grocery clerk and giggle and make — what do you call
those? — “goo-goo” eyes at them. See in them the Child called Christ. See in
them your Children. See Christ in your parents. See Christ in your friends and
in what you have formerly perceived to be your enemies. For until you are
willing, truly willing, to set aside the seriousness of the world and
acknowledge that you had it all backward, and to look into the face — even if
it means looking into your memories because they are no longer around — to look
into the face of someone that you believed has hurt you, judged you, condemned
you, and when you see the Light of Christ outshines even the appearance of
their ego, you will learn precisely what I learned through what was called the
crucifixion. 

Now imagine this. Some of you think you've had bad days. 

{Laughter} 

How would you feel if somebody forgot to feed you and then gave you some heavy
wooden cross and told you you had to carry it someplace, and then once you got
it there with a little bit of help from an old friend, they laid you down on it
and said, "We don't really mean anything personal here. However, we need to
pound some nails through your hands and feet because we don't want you to fall
off too soon." 

And yet even then, you touched the place of power and Truth within in you, and
you looked beyond the appearances and you saw the face of Christ smiling back
at you — so much so that through your eyes the one pounding the nails is taken
aback and for a moment sees a Light that reminds them of an ancient song that
they thought they had forgotten. And a smile crosses your lips. For just one
Holy Instant there's perfect clarity between crucifiers and the one crucified.
And a silence descends and peace is remembered, and one of them — they forgot
this part in the Bible, by the way — one of them dropped the tools, let the
head hang down and walked away. 

Truth was awakened in that one and that one became a very dear brother that
history has long since forgotten, and that one became a miracle worker. That
one has been, shall we say, incarnated as you would perceive it in many
consecutive lifetimes in which that one has served as my voice and as my body.
That one has been known as a master in many lands, though in most incarnations
he wasn't really very famous. He just worked miracles. 

Now, what happened to the others? Fear and guilt made them close the eyes of
the heart and they continued with what they had been ordered to do. And yet, I
can let you know that from that moment a new journey was begun in the soul of
each of them. A seed was planted, as it is planted every time you love the
Christ in your brother and sister. And the Holy Spirit comes and waters it with
its magical waters, and even what you might be led to call or perceive as the
darkest of souls, the most confused of minds, begins the journey of
remembrance, of healing and of the release of pain and guilt. 

You may never with your physical eyes see the miracles come to fruition, but
each time you remember that "I and my Father are One; I am the one sent forth
into this very moment — whatever it is — to bring a Light and the Love of the
Kingdom of Heaven and to give it to my brother or sister with great joyousness;
not with seriousness," you have planted the seed that will inevitably flower.
And you have joined with me in bringing the gift of grace back to the mind of
one who felt they were unworthy of it. And rest assured if you plant that seed,
I will make sure that it is watered. For while it is given unto you to be with
the body for a short time, I don't have one. And I can get around very quickly.
And my garden hose stretches from one end of creation to the other, and the
water supply has never been cut off. Indeed. Indeed. 

What would it feel like if tomorrow you set aside just one day, just one day,
to experiment? Just one day in which from the moment you arise until the moment
you go to sleep you no longer tolerate the error of wrong-mindedness in
yourself? It's just a game, you see. You simply turn the channel to
right-mindedness. What if tomorrow, just for the fun of it, you pretended that
you are the one that God Himself sent forth to the world? That you are perfect
and without sin? That there is nothing left in you that needs to be healed?
That you are the Thought of perfect Love in form? If you want to pretend you
are the saviour of the world, go ahead, have fun with it. 

What if for one day you just tried on the role to see how it feels?
Remembering, of course, that in the ‘Book of Mastery’, Chapter 1, paragraph 1,
subtitle "a" it says, "The Word of God made flesh shall take upon itself no
trace of seriousness and shall not forget to sing, laugh, dance and play. And
shall simply be overjoyed to be the presence of Love." Just for one day. 

Indeed, I say this unto you: when you have accomplished that completely for one
minute, just for one minute, one complete and whole minute, you will have
started a momentum, an avalanche, a tidal wave that is indeed destined to sweep
across the face of this Earth. For the unhappy dream that has been brought
forth out of minds filled with fear and guilt, believing in separation, the
unhappy dream is being translated into a perfectly happy dream in which this
world will be the brightest reflection it can possibly be of the Kingdom of
Heaven on Earth. You know it as a thousand years of perfect peace, is one way
to talk about it. And when that moment has been completed, the purpose of time
is also completed. And the things of this world will no longer hold any value,
any meaning and any purpose. For it is given unto you to understand that though
this world perhaps was created in error — I speak not of the trees; I speak not
of the clouds; I speak not of the blessed rain and the precious soil of your
Holy Mother. I speak of the world, the ideas that have been constructed within
the minds of mankind, the ideas it has fabricated because of its fragmentation
— that world is going to be corrected. 

Time came forth with the thought of separation, and you are here now because
each and every one of you knows that the time to bring time to a close is
quickly coming. And I want you above all things in this evening to understand
completely that you have not come to this world out of punishment, out of lack,
out of something called karma that you will have to fix. You are here because
you've already been fixed. 

The sparkplugs have been changed. The oil is new. The tires have the right
amount of air in them and the ‘Rolls Royce’ of the body carries only the
awakened Son of God. Awakening is not difficult. It requires only your
willingness to acknowledge that you are awake. You don't have to believe it.
You merely need to acknowledge it. And each time you do so, each time you do
so, the spaciousness of yourheart will increase. The willingness to be wholly
vulnerable with one another will blossom. And the Light of Love that has been
held under a bushel made of only an erroneous thought, will shine forth in all
of its splendor and glory. 

Oh, come to understand then that when you choose to be the one who is awake,
you extend unto the world the greatest of gifts you could ever bring, for you
bring forth the demonstration of the holy union of Father and Son. And rest
assured, it will be noticed. 

Now, of course, when it's noticed, some minds will go, "God, thank you", and
others will hide their eyes for a little while. You are not sent into this
world to fix anybody — because you can't. You are not sent into this world to
heal anybody, because you can't. You are sent to be the demonstration of one
who has accepted healing so that in you your brother can see his reflection.
His true reflection. 

And while the body lasts, dance. Do a little jig every morning and every night.
Call it your spiritual practice, if you will. And while you polish your
crystals, precious that they are, remember that the grandest of crystals is the
awakened heart in which Christ dwells, the Heart that is in you, set there by
God Himself. Indeed. 

‘Healing The Illusions of Hurt.’ If I came to you and gave you complex
techniques, it would only reinforce the illusion that they have not already
been taken from you. And if you seem yet to carry them, it's because a small
part of you has kind of chased after them and said, "No, no. Father, not yet. I
don't really know if I can let go of them just yet." 

And healing waits on your welcome. Healing waits on your welcome, the welcome
of the Truth that you are whole now. And all you need do is to be willing to
let the Holy Spirit, the right-mindedness within your own being, teach you anew
what the meaning of relationship is for and what the purpose and function of
this world truly is all about. 

This is what it means to be contrite of heart, poor in Spirit. You are no
longer clouded with all the riches you've made. The riches of fake thoughts and
judgments and fears the ego’s heaped upon you and said, "There, now you are
very rich." When you become poor in Spirit, you become vulnerable and you
realize that each moment is just there so that you can deepen your
understanding of how to be again the presence of Love in form. 

Do you need to be concerned with what to say and what to do? No, the ego is
concerned with what to say and what to do because it believes that it must
somehow make an impression. It must fix somebody. It must get their nod of
approval. But when the mind is still and the heart is empty, you need only ask
of the Holy Spirit, "What would You have me say?" and "What would You have me
do?" And those of you that are involved in what is called healing work, you
know what I am talking about because it works when you get out of the way. You
find that you put your hand someplace and you didn't even think about it. It
just happened. And, "Oh, my goodness, I forgot to do this, this and that, and
yet this incredible miracle happened." 

The Holy Spirit is the part of you that always knows what to do and what to
say. Always, without fail. Be you, therefore, willing to listen. Indeed. 

Can you feel that silence? It is not just because no one but me is speaking.
It's not because the bodies aren't moving in the chairs. Can you feel that
silence? Is it not the shared silence that come when the things of illusion
have been set aside and Truth for a moment has been remembered? Feel it. Abide
with me now. Touch the place — the Holy of Holies, in which perfect peace
dwells without limitation, abiding within you as the foundation of your
reality. 

Feel the quality of a peace that forever passes all understanding and be glad,
for the end of the journey is upon you and the holy Son of God is returned. The
gift has been received. And in each moment that you are asked to abide for just
a little while longer in this world, in each moment, seek first the Kingdom of
Heaven and rest in the place of peace and you will know what needs to be said,
what needs to be done and where to go, who to walk with. And you will know that
you are never alone. 

For the promise that I have given unto you remains true: "I am with you
always." And if ever you feel that your strength is waning, that a moment of
doubt arises, remember this, for my word is true: I will give you the wholeness
of my strength until yours is as certain as mine in every single moment that
you ask for it. You don't have to earn it because I give it freely. 

And when it's time to set aside the body and to give it back to your Holy
Mother, do so with ease and with peace. Remember that you have never been the
body. It's just a tool for communication. Turn then your awareness in that
moment to the great ray of Light that will seem to appear as though it were
shining above you, and remember what I say in this moment: you are seeing the
great ray of Light that you are, that you have always been and shall remain
throughout all of eternity. 

Little wonder that those that have had near-death experiences rather relish the
thing — the tunnel of Light, to stand face to face with your true Self, to
realize beyond all doubt that you are a great ray of Light emanating from the
Mind of God Himself. And that is who you've always been. Always. 

And if you would remember yourself in any moment, then see that great ray of
Light that seems to descend like a dove and perhaps penetrates you through the
crown of your head. Be you identified with Light and you are the Light of the
world. Indeed. 

I love you, and because I love you I come and I knock without ceasing. And my
knuckles have never been bloodied — I got smart and gave up using a physical
body. And to anyone who would just open the door a little tiny crack, rest
assured I will rush in and sit down at your table and, boy, will we have some
stories — a lot of "do you remember when?", and a lot of laughter over the
sweetest of wines you've ever tasted: the wine of perfect remembrance. You are
loved wholly. You have never sinned and there has never been a trace of
judgment upon you by the Mind of the One Who really matters. 

Be you therefore at peace and understand that the only thing you are worthy of
is the fullness of the Light you are, and the table has been set before you.
Your Father asks you not to choose crumbs. Indeed. So. 

It is a delicious silence, is it not? Let the memories come back. There are
some of you in this room that know I am talking to you now. Let the memories
come back. The world never succeeded in taking me from you. It simply allowed
me to come closer. And rest assured, if I can manage to find a way to break
through the veils of resistance in this my ancient and beloved brother's mind,
I can certainly come to you at the drop of a hat. Indeed. 

You are the one. You are the one and it's time. Many ancient members of a
certain family are being gathered together. Some in some locations, some in
others. It doesn't really matter. There is no separation anyway. That which is
beginning to be established in what you call your Ash Land, is, shall we say, a
point of Light indeed. Some of you already know that. Some of you are going to
learn it. And many of your ancient brothers and sisters have already heard the
call and are thinking about, shall we say, becoming pioneers and moving
westward to a place called Oregon and a little town called Ashland. Indeed. 

A place of healing, of nurturance, of dance and of singing. Of community. A
place surrounded by the sublime and treasured beauty of your Holy Mother.
Indeed a place to be held sacred until every piece of concrete is like the
steps to the greatest of cathedrals. And you will build the walls by being the
ones who anchor that Light, just as others that you have known in ancient times
are currently involved in similar works at many places all over this planet. 

The tapestry is being woven and Light returns to Earth. And what you have
waited for and what you have envisioned, what has touched you in your dreams
and in your sleep, and some of you in your meditations and some of you
full-blown while you are walking down your street, it is not imagination. 

Do you have a role to play? Well, of course. What is it? To be the presence of
Love right where you are in this moment, because when you do that, your
guidance will unfailingly take you to the next. Let the Weaver weave the
tapestry through you while you celebrate the rebirth of what you've always
known in the depth of your heart. Many of you are nodding within, "Yes, that's
right. I know. I always knew that," The time is at hand. The time is at hand.
There. The telegram is delivered, and you know if you have received it. 

So I am going to ask you that you take the things of this hour deep into your
heart, even if the mind is kind of shuffling through the pages wondering if
it's a book you want to take home with you or not. Let the heart feel it rather
than allowing the mind to think about it. And the part of your own
right-mindedness will acknowledge for you if anything I have shared with you is
the Truth. 

I come to prove nothing. I come not to convince. I come to share good tidings
of great joy. The Son re-awakens. I'm simply going to suggest that you allow
yourself to have what you call a break. Only bodies can have breaks. And if you
feel full, if you feel complete, if you feel baffled, it's perfectly okay. And
if you want to leave, by all means feel free to do so. In fact, I am going to
ask that you just look in your own heart and understand that that guidance is
there for you, and just ask if you'd rather stay or go. It makes no difference,
you see, because all minds are joined, and I have to confess something that I
haven't really quite confessed before: that whenever anybody comes to one of
these little gatherings, it's not by accident, and once they come you could say
that the telephone line is wired. And some have left a little baffled only to
find that I keep showing up in their dreams and they can't seem to shake me.
They just haven't quite realized that they are the one that acknowledged the
desire to have the line put into their mind. That's all. No one has ever come
to this work by accident. No one. It's not possible. 

So enjoy your break, and you'll know when it's about time; and if you want to
stay and, shall we say, chat together now that the telegram is delivered, by
all means we will sit — although I don't actually sit — and we will chat about
whatever you want to chat about. Or we might just be together and hug and laugh
a lot. It will be up to you. 

I extend unto you my thankfulness for your presence. Not only in this hour but
in all hours. I extend unto you the honor that I feel for you because you have
chosen to take the final journey to God and to awaken from a longstanding
dream. You have chosen to take upon yourselves the mantle of being the ones who
stand awake so that others can make the same choice. 

If I had a body, I would bow down before you, before your splendor and before
your radiance, before your perfection and before your love and before your
gifts and beauty. If you could only look with the eyes of your heart, you would
surely come to realize that this friend and brother that the world has made far
too much of has been bowing down before you since the moment you were created
in the Mind of my Father. I relish the Love and the Light that you are and the
gifts that you bring me. Just because you are. I love you, and the appearances
of this world can never in any way, shape or form separate you from me. I won't
allow it. 

Be at peace in all things, and remember, from peace comes the freedom to be
wholly outrageous. Indeed. And the next time you eat some chocolate and
somebody says, "Whew, bad stuff," look them in the eye, throw your head back
and say, "My Father gave it to me." 

{Laughter} 

Indeed. "And, boy, is it good." 

*Jeshua, the tape's about to end.* 

She doesn't like to miss a word. For, you see, she has to take these tapes back
to another old friend who is currently called Tom, who loves to transcribe all
of these words and he doesn't like missing a word. But when he does, he makes
them up and they are usually okay. 

{Laughter} 

Sometimes he catches me whispering and he gets the right one in. Sometimes he
likes his own choices. Indeed. It is all rather laughable, isn't it? 

Do you see what comes from peace? Joy. Joy overflowing. And be you therefore
joyous always. Laugh and sing and dance and play. You might need to after you
eat your chocolate anyway. And just remember this: you have never left the
Kingdom of Heaven. It isn't possible. When the things of this world are put
aside for the last time, you will smile and rejoice and you will know "I and my
Father are One." 

Peace be unto you. Peace be unto you until indeed it is witnessed upon this
plane: the sacred marriage of the things of Heaven with the things of Earth,
that the Light of Christ might be extended as far as from the East to the West,
and that is the meaning of the cross and the resurrection. 

It might be good to let the Pope in on that. 

{Laughter} 

Go in peace. I am with you always. No further away than the width of a thought.
Amen. 

Indeed, now once again we begin. 

And indeed again, greetings unto you, beloved and precious friends, and now
that we all know who we are, there is in Truth no need for long greetings. 

I have not left you in what you call your break. It is a rather interesting
word that you use. Some of you know what it means to take a break that lasts a
lifetime or two. 

But in the end you simply realize that freedom doesn't really mean that you can
choose whether or not to learn the only curriculum you need to learn. It simply
means that it's up to you when you will choose to learn it. And so when you
take your break, a lifetime or two, nothing is really lost — just delayed. 

If that is true — and I assure you that it is — it means that everything that
comes to you by way of your experience has come through a consent at one level
or another. It may not seem that way, of course, and you know what that feels
like. But rest assured, not one thing can occur without your consent at some
level. 

I know that means that you have to completely abandon the thought of
victimization. But I can't help that. It is only an idea that disempowers you.
Have you not learned in your own ways that each time you accept responsibility,
even when you don't understand it, for the events that have arisen in your own
life and you choose to embrace them, somehow answers come? Miraculously,
sometimes easily, and in the end you look back and go, "Boy, did I learn a lot
from that. There's a part of me that is even thankful for it." That part is
very precious.

When you touch the part that is thankful for whatever comes to you, when
gratitude wells up within you, rest assured healing has occurred. And that
means that when you can abide in the state of perpetual gratitude so that you
are already giving thanks before something happens, there is nothing left to be
healed. 

When you can extend forgiveness to everybody for everything, even if they
haven't done it yet, you are ahead of the game. And when you can rest in
gratitude for even the things that you haven't imagined yet, oh, indeed, your
joy is full. And out of that gratitude little miracles start to happen in the
sense — and some of you know what I am talking about here — you get to see
ahead of time what's going to unfold. 

It is only fear and the contraction of it that blocks your ability to see what
some would call the future. I would simply call it tuning in to a part of the
movie that's already done. Gratitude is that aspect of energy that signals that
your heart is open, that you're receptive, that you're trusting the whole
thing, and that you acknowledge your safety. Gratitude says that
right-mindedness has descended upon you and you recognize that while God has
created you, you have not created God, and therefore indeed that gratitude is
given forth to the Source of your being. 

Gratitude is extremely powerful. Extremely powerful. The doctors and the
healers of your world would do well to teach their patients — and indeed they
must be patient often while doctors try to figure out what to do — they would
do well to teach their patients the art of gratitude. For gratitude unlocks the
ability of healing at all levels. At all levels. Gratitude actually opens the
cells of the body so that the Light of Love can begin to flow again like a
river. Gratitude is absolutely essential to living in the Kingdom. Absolutely
essential. 

And when I say become outrageous, especially become outrageous with your
gratitude. Find the most mundane, perhaps the most heretofore irritating
things, and actually change your energy field by getting into feeling gratitude
for it. Really feeling it. Doing what you might call going and jumping off the
cliff, expressing far more gratitude than the moment ought to call for.
Whatever "ought" is supposed to be. And get into it until you actually feel it
into every cell of your body. 

Now, if you really want to have some fun with it — which you ought to do anyway
— the next time that you purchase your groceries, really say, "Thank you." Now,
you are just warming the person up, so don't get too outrageous at first. Leave
the store. Come back in with the groceries, put them back on the counter. Say,
"I just can't seem to get away from this place. I just have to express my
gratitude to you again.

This is amazing. This whole store is so I can come in and get whatever I want.
You are there to take my money. Oh, did I give you enough? Are you sure. Well,
here, let me give you a tip." Give the person a tip. "Thank you, thank you."
Take your bags of groceries and leave. Come back in. Put them on the counter
again. Say, "I can't stay in my car. There is so much Light filling it, it just
kind of sweeps me right out. I had to come back in. You are the most incredible
being I have ever known. This is amazing. How do you do it? You get up, you
come to this place every day just to serve me? This is incredible. Did I give
you a tip? I'll give you another one." Pick up your groceries and leave. 

Wait an extra minute. Come back again and by then, of course, you are shouting
at the top of your lungs, "Could I talk to your boss? Is your supervisor here?
I've got to... I just have to share this with somebody. Give this person a
raise! This is amazing. This person brings so much Light that I can't help but
come here to buy my groceries. I am so thankful for you. This is amazing. Did I
give you a tip? Here, let me give you another one." And then take your
groceries home. 

Why not? Try it just once, and rest assured all the way home you will be
whistling a happy tune. And those groceries, whatever it is you purchased as
that which hopefully will sustain the body, will taste better than anything
you've ever purchased in that store before. And it will be infused with your
own Love and life force. So, why not give it a try?! 

Perhaps we should begin having mandatory homework assignments. 

{Laughter} 

Now, if you really want to have fun, get all of you together and buy your
groceries at the same time. 

{Laughter} 

It is not unlike some of the outrageous things I did with my friends way back
when. You've been taught that it was a rather serious time. It was in other
minds and sometimes I took on that seriousness to get the point across. But
rest assured, we had more than our share of outrageous times. And I must
confess that if it were given unto me to pick a body about to be in this time
frame, I would be having a ball — because in your world there is an infinite
array of opportunities to be wholly outrageous. 

Sometime when you have the time — and I assure you you always have the time —
take a look at one month of your time that you have lived and count up all the
days in which you chose to do something totally outrageous and carried it out.
And then look at the total. What were you doing on the other days? Being
serious. And if you were being serious, and seriousness is of the world and not
of the Kingdom, where were you? And if you were there, where was the Kingdom? 

You'll find that when you are in your seriousness and you know you are in the
world, that's when you feel like a seeker. And when you are in your
outrageousness, your happiness, your joy, your simplicity, your trust, your
compassion, that's when you are in the Kingdom and you know that you are a
finder. Now, given those two options, it is up to you to decide which holds the
greater value. Indeed. 

Well, enough of all of that. Now you know what to do the next time you go
grocery shopping as a group. 

{Laughter} 

Indeed. So I have promised you that in this hour it's up to you. Totally up to
you. And I come to abide with you as your friend and as your brother, and if I
were given a body, I would kick my feet up and just be with you. And we can
chat about anything you want to chat about. And if you have questions, indeed
we will explore them. I don't have any answers. What you can't see is that
whenever you ask a question I run over to my friend the Holy Spirit, given to
me as the bridge to my Father, and say, "Hey, my friend wants to know this.
What do you want me to tell them?" And the Holy Spirit whispers it to me. I run
back and blend that thought or that idea through the mind of my beloved brother
and out come certain words and you think I gave you the answer. And the other
part of it is this: the Holy Spirit, when It receives the question that I have
transmitted to it from you, runs full circle and sneaks in the back door of
your heart, pulls out the answer, comes back and gives it to me. 

In the end, this process has as its aim bringing you to the point where you
recognize that right-mindedness is with you always, and when you are no longer
attached to the answer in terms of what it is going to mean, what it's going to
be, when you are willing to trust, you will know that the answers you seek are
always with you. And I have never said anything to anyone that has really been
a surprise to their right-mindedness. It might be a surprise to their ego but
not to the part of them that is in perfect alignment with the Mind of God. 

So in that sense I'm just your servant and I deliver back to you what the Truth
in you already knows. And at times you have needed that process because to
truly hear the Truth seems to be painful until you hear it. And then, of
course, it's still up to you whether or not you will receive it and act on it.
Let your own Truth live through you. That is something I can't help you with.
But I can certainly root you on. 

Is all of that clear for you? Are you ready to begin? 

*Jeshua, I spoke with a friend today who lives in Kauai, and she asked me for
many, many people on Kauai right now if you could possibly say a few words of
encouragement for them. She described so well that the entire island feels like
it's gone through a spiritual winter. And if you could give some added words? I
gave her words from my heart for a focus for them, right now.*

Indeed. Could you feel me in a sense looking at you, waiting for you to ask
your question? 

*Yes.* 

Now, already these two friends over there, ancient sisters, who happen to love
Kauai as much as anyone, having been there at its inception when it was a part
of an ancient continent and culture called Lemuria, which, that place of it,
although it wasn't just a little island at the time, was created to be a rather
sacred — some of you would call it a vortex — sacred temple. It is a very, very
ancient land that is there. A very ancient energy that is there. 

It's been somewhat dormant for awhile in that regard. As you asked your
question both of them were getting a little bit of a buzz in the spine and in
the mind. How interesting it is that you would ask that question in Ashland
when indeed things are already set in motion for the re-emergence, the
rebirthing of that which is known as Kauai. And the best way to describe it
would be to say that it will re-emerge as a hub of a spiritual wheel. 

There will be a center created there. I speak not here particularly about a
center that has walls and roofs although there will be some of that. And
already there is being sent some who are very integral in establishing that
center. And before you leave here, I want you to just have some fun and talk to
Anastasia and make sure you have a certain being's name and phone number to
give to your friend. The tapestry is being woven. 

I want to say just a few more things. A little wind has come to that land and
it has created a definite... what could be perceived as a spiritual winter. But
what follows winter?

Spring. 

Indeed. I would say unto your friend and unto many, rest assured the family is
being gathered, and what is going to arise there can't really be put into words
yet, save to say this; many masters are going to begin to awaken to a call to
gather there. They will be mind beings, if you will, that most of them will
have mastered money. They won't have issues with lack, and a lot of them will
travel to places all over this globe and be involved in many works, and they
will return to that place to be renewed, to be balanced, to be healed. And many
will travel to that place even as they did a long, long time ago. I would say
unto you that even the mayor of that place is already having visions and
dreams, is already in alignment with what can be. 

Therefore, great faith, great celebration and great joy. Let the visions
descend into the minds of your friends, and there will be a tighter weaving
that will take place in the next weeks and months to come. It would be very
good for your friend to be in contact with the one whom Anastasia will tell you
about, whose name I don't want to mention at this time for certain energetic
reasons. Thank you for the question. 

Also let them know that from their perspective it could be said that there are
many masters working as the laborers who are weaving the tapestry. Much remains
to be set in place but all is proceeding well, and it requires their
willingness to help anchor that vision. They already know that. 

Do you think that will help? 

*Indeed.* 

Indeed. Does all of that seem surprising to anyone? Good. It's just part of the
script already written. 

You know, of course, that that was one of the primary reasons you were here
tonight. 

*Yes, Jeshua. It is fun, isn't it?* 

*I have a question. Earlier you mentioned time will be coming to an end. Will
you be more specific about that?*

Tomorrow.

{Laughter} 

Now, time itself does not exist in the Kingdom that was before time, and that's
one way to look at it. Time is that which is transcended when the mind slips
between the cracks and remembers the Truth. Many of you in this room have had
quite clear experiences of the timelessness, the eternality of the Kingdom of
Heaven. 

Time arose in an ancient beginning when the Son was one and walked with God.
And in its infinite freedom the mind of the Son chose to hold one thought: "I
wonder what it's like to be separate from God?" And the Child began to dream,
the Son of God began to dream a most interesting dream in which he sought to
use his power to create unlike God. God creates that which is timeless and
unchangeable. Therefore, to create unlike God is to create the things of time.
Therefore, time was birthed with one thought, the thought of separation. And in
that moment the one great Light which is the Mind of the Son, Christ, burst
forth — your scientists have called it the "Big Bang"; they just didn't know
what they were talking about — in which Light became fragmented into what is
perceived as many minds, all experiencing a descent into time, weaving
tapestries of worlds and complexities upon complexities, seeking first to run
from God and then to seek God. 

What is happening is this:  from the moment that explosion occurred and the
dream of fragmentation and separation came into being, already the very
energies of that explosion began weaving the tapestry that would eventually and
inevitably bring the fragmented parts of the Mind of the holy Son of God back
together to a recognition of oneness that transcends bodies, transcends
physicality, transcends the things of space and time. 

Therefore, time has been corrected, for the weaver of that tapestry is the Holy
Spirit, Whose wisdom and guidance never errs. And the Holy Spirit uses
everything every fragmented mind could ever think or create as the very means
for steering that mind back to God, until the Light begins to dawn and the call
to awaken is heard. 

Many of you have looked at some of your past lives as you would call them and
you have realized that you've been on this journey for awhile, doing a lot of
preparatory work, healing work and all of that, getting closer and closer and
closer. That happened when there was a turning about in the seat of the soul,
the whisper of the Holy Spirit was heard. The call of your own soul to awake
seeped through into consciousness. And you began to seek different things. You
began to ask yourself questions in a new way. And you began to feel pulled,
first in this direction and then in that, then into this lifetime and then into
that, looking for something that you thought you knew, and then at the same
time looking for something without even knowing why you are looking. And yet,
something begins to compel you — and you all know that feeling. 

Precious friend, in the end of perfect remembrance the things of time are put
away and the purpose of time re-translated by the Holy Spirit, which is the
extension of the Mind of God into the Mind of the Son, holding the thought of
perfect union so that it could never be lost. Time has completed its holy
purpose and the things of time are no longer valued and can then be gently put
away. It is hard for the mind to comprehend that time, and yet it comes
quickly. 

Miracles...the purpose of a miracle is that it shortens the need for time. It
is why when one is working on somebody, doing some healing work, and there is a
breakthrough, it is like a quantum leap in which there is no distance traveled.
You simply move from here to here, that fast. A miracle has occurred that has
shortened the need for time, and that mind that has experienced the healing has
saved countless lifetimes. 

Because miracles shorten the need for time, you as a miracle worker are very
much involved with the process of ending the need for time through the
extension of your Love. And that is what creates the quickening, the
acceleration that so many minds and hearts are feeling these days. It's in the
air. And yes, you would look out and see so many that don't seem to be aware of
it at all. That doesn't matter. All minds are joined, and as one mind awakens,
it makes it easier for the second. And when two are awake, numbers three
through six will awaken very quickly. When all of them together awaken, seven
through fifty awaken much more quickly. And that is how the Son of God returns.
Not in a fiery chariot from the sky, but rebirthed in an ancient remembrance in
the minds of the heretofore fragmented Son of God. 

And in that day and in that hour when what you might call critical mass is
achieved, there will be a sound heard. It will not be a physical sound. It will
be a sound heard within the consciousness, within the soul, signaling the end
of the world, the end of the need for time. But just yet there will not be
calamity, as some have predicted in terms of Biblical predictions about the end
of the world. But rather, the things of time themselves will be translated into
that which most gloriously reflects the perfections of Heaven, so that they can
be mirrored back in complete consciousness into every aspect of the Holy Mind
of the Son of God. And, beholding his own splendor, the Son will be remembered
in its entirety as One. 

And you could say, if you want to paint a picture, that all minds will say
together, "I and my Father are One and I put aside the things of this world —
of fear, of doubt, of seriousness." And there indeed will be a period of peace,
of, call it dancing in the streets, in which you will play out one final dream:
a dream still of bodies but of bodies that begin to be transfigured, filled,
radiating more and more the Light of the Truth that the body was originally
meant to conceal. And the body itself shall become a Light, and separation will
be seen no more and minds will join as one beyond the reaches of space and
time. 

And that which has been created collapses, dissolves in a Light
incomprehensible and a joy for which there are no words. Time indeed, beloved
friend, will come to an end, that the things of eternity shall be remembered
fully. 

How, then, to speak of such a moment beyond time, when the Son has returned to
his rightful place? No words can touch that. No words can touch it. But I can
say that the greatest of ecstasies, the greatest of pleasures that any mind
could ever experience in this world — and I would place within that category my
own transfiguration — pale to insignificance to that moment when all things are
returned to God and there is naught but perfect union. And Light that begets
Light radiates out and fills a circle that has no circumference, neither
beginning nor end. 

Indeed, beloved friend, time will end, that eternity may be rebirthed
completely. And it is you who will be present with me in that moment, and we
will be together with all of our brothers and sisters, indeed — Light
dissolving into Light beyond the comprehension of this world that has been
dreamed into being from one thought: separation from God. 

I hope that helps a little bit. Thank you. 

Now what do you do in the meantime? Play and celebrate what comes to pass by
being the one who chooses to remember now. A little ahead of everybody else.
And what happens when you choose to remember? You become a miracle worker and
you shorten the need for time. Your remembrance is a remembrance that is a gift
to everyone seeking to remember. 

So whenever you are led to feel, "What possibly could I ever do? What could I
ever give anyone?" understand that you can give to this world the gift of the
possibility of remembrance by being the one who remembers. 

*I have a question about something you said earlier about Ashland being a center
of Light. I've been traveling for several months and found myself drawn here. I
planned on staying a couple of days, and a week later I’m still here. In fact,
I intended to leave a couple of times and I've gotten two flat tires in the
last five days. So I'm getting the message that I might need to stay here. And
I could use some help and encouragement with that.*

{Laughter} 

Well, all I can say is that I indeed hope you're willing to accept the message
before something else has to happen. 

{Laughter} 

*That's occurred to me, yes.* 

Just happened to feel attracted to this place, huh? 

*Yes.* 

Indeed. 

*We're all here because we want to be here.*

*Yes, I've heard that.*

And you see all around you the many who felt the same call — perhaps in a
different time, but they heard the call and they've been waiting for you. And
you have awakened to your own call. You could say that once upon a time we all
got together and for a moment remembered ourselves as great rays of one Light,
and we saw how the drama was going to get played out and so you popped up and
said, "Well, look. I'll go to Ashland. It sounds like it might be a nice place
to be then." And I said, "Very well." And you said, "Look, could you just ring
me up when it's time?" So I went to my secretary and said, "Could you put that
down on the calendar, since I don't have one?" 

Now, the appointment book was rather full. A bit of time had to go by, and you
got engrossed in reading the magazines in the waiting room — so much so that
you began to fantasize that you were the characters in the stories you were
reading and you forgot that you were in the waiting room and began to doze off.
What happened, beloved friend, is that the bell rang and the secretary said,
"Yoo hoo, you can come in now." And you felt attracted, and it almost felt like
it was somehow by accident, like, "What's doing this?" You are, because you've
agreed in an ancient time, and seemingly forgotten. 

So, did you get your tires fixed?

*Yes.* 

Indeed. How do you like it here? 

*I love it here. I've been feeling a lot of joy and happiness since I've been
here.*

Well, we can't have too much of that, now. 

Now, the reason I asked you that is this: what you've just said is going to
help countless, countless others understand something. Many are going to hear
and read what you just said, and in it they will understand that the way that
they will know where they are to be, and when they are to be there, is by
noticing the quality of joy that emerges from them when they find that place,
when they follow their heart's desire and arrive where they are asked to be.
So, you see, you've just been a miracle worker. How about that? 

*Yes.* 

Indeed. Now, I can lend you my support for being here and I can tell you that
indeed, beloved friend, you have listened well to the right-mindedness within
you, in which all wisdom and Truth abides and in which guidance never errs. It
knew how to find Ashland on a tiny point on one planet amidst a million worlds,
and here you are. And I would bet that there are many sitting around you right
now who are feeling the appropriateness and the rightness of your presence here
and are already celebrating it. Is that not true? 

*Yes.* 

Support will indeed be given. Merely open up to receive guidance, help,
friendship, community. Don't try to dampen the Love and the joy. Isn't it about
time? 

*Yes.* 

Yes, indeed. So when you leave here tonight, indeed you can skip all the way
home because you've arrived. The ship has sailed into port. Enjoy it. Trust
each moment and let your gratitude lead you into the next without error. No
need for any more flat tires. Does that help you with that? 

*Yes. Yes, thank you.* 

Thank you for awakening to your own call.

*Little brother, peace be with you. My question is about multiple lives. You've
spoken about people living many lives. I've been confronted with this question
several times in the past year, and I don't remember other lives so I simply
wait until the Light comes. I'd like to hear from you on this?*

Ultimately, the value of the idea of reincarnation is found in its ability with
some to shift their perception so that they remember that life is eternal,
without beginning and without end, that there is no such thing as death and
that they far transcend just the one life that the world has tried to tell them
they are. Is it necessary to remember what are perceived as past lives or other
lives? No. It can be helpful in a process of healing, but it is not necessary.
And this is so because that which has been brought with you unhealed from
another life, if you want to use that form of language, is most certainly going
on in your life where you are. 

And therefore to look at what is happening in this life is to see the
reflection of what has been going on in many others, both of what you might
call the good and the bad. And as you correct what is going on by coming back
into your right-mindedness, because time is not real and separation does not
exist, you quite literally heal a thousand lives. What you heal now in this
life heals a thousand lives. Don't take the number literally, this means all of
them. 

When others are pursuing the desire to remember other lives, celebrate their
successes. Honor their path, and yet trust your own knowingness. The mind might
say, "Well, why is that happening to me and maybe I'm missing out?" You can't
possibly miss out on your own pathway home. 

Your task, whether you remember your lifetimes or not, is to be the presence of
the Thought of Love in form now. And when all lifetimes have been remembered,
and all dramas have come back into your memory, you are still left with just
that: the decision to be one who is awake, the presence of Love. 

For, you see, precious friend, in the end of all seeking one discovers
something that seems incredible at first, and then the most natural fact of
all. And it is this: you live the life of every being. There is nothing and no
one outside of you. You have never looked upon a stranger, for you have seen
only yourself, and you are your brother's keeper because you are your brother. 

We talk about reincarnation and other lives because that is what the mind at
that moment can work with. But that is not the end of the movie by any means.
And yes, that does mean that the life of Jeshua ben Joseph is your life, an
aspect of your own beingness. Yes, it's possible for anyone to tap into that
core of what could be called cosmic consciousness and actually feel what it was
like to be crucified, dead and buried. It is not outside of you by any means. 

That is why some of you can remember so many lives. That's why some of you, if
we could get you together, would remember the same life. Indeed. That's what
needs to be grasped. You live the life of every being. There is nothing outside
of you. And it all brings you back around to now, and the simplicity of the
choice to be or not to be the presence of Love, that which your Father created
you to be and which you remain eternally. 

So when next the question arises about multiple lives, past lives, just sit
back and go, "I understand that. What's the big deal?" And just smile and
remember that each fragmented mind has woven a tapestry, to use that language
again, and the Holy Spirit takes a look at it and scratches His head and
goes….He doesn't even have a head, but He would if He had one… 

{Laughter} 

He says, "Well, that's an interesting tapestry. You actually believe you've had
all of these lives, one after the other, and look at that. That's a bad one
there. Well, we'll just set about to create some situations in which we start
to unravel the dream that you are dreaming until Light floods the mind and you
look and say, ‘My God, I am all things. I am without beginning and without end.
It's true. I am that one created in the Mind of God, the holy and only begotten
Son of God.'" 

At that point who has need of past lives? Does that help? 

*Very much. It's pretty much what I have come to on my own in the past couple of
years.*

What, you mean you didn't need me? 

{Laughter} 

There are others that are going to hear this tape, and I do need you, yes. For
the past couple of years the focus of my work has been around the sevenfold
peace. 

Again. 

*Yeah, oh. And yet to come. And the first of the sevenfold is peace with the
body, and during our break there were some people talking about eating animal
flesh, and I’d like you to speak for a moment about consuming the flesh of your
brothers, the cows, the goats and the chickens, if you might?*

To begin with, I want to say that the eating of a vegetable is nice because
they don't scream as loudly. 

{Laughter and giggling} 

You hear them nonetheless. 

Now, there is no judgment upon the eating of flesh. It does not and cannot
separate you from God. Therefore, the shift that needs to occur is to make sure
that you understand that, for instance, to become a vegetarian, to become a
breathairian, to become a lightarian, you do not do these things in order to
get to God. You allow them to express themselves, those changes that come, out
of your devotion and love and gratitude. Out of your whole-mindedness. When you
do that, not even a trace of judgment arises about the pathway of another
because you come to see that the correction of diet before the mind has been
corrected doesn't really correct much at all. 

When I said, "Seek first the Kingdom of Heaven and all these things shall be
added to you", I meant in part that when your mind is corrected and you are
awake, you will know that you can trust the guidance given unto you. And the
guidance then becomes quite naturally that you feel more comfortable with that
which is lighter upon the being, that requires less energy. It becomes almost a
practical concern rather than a moral or a spiritual one. And then when you
become willing to allow the Holy Spirit to re-teach you, you give up the need
to hold on to habits you have learned from your parents, from others, and you
no longer care whether you eat meat or whether you don't. 

You allow that wisdom to inform you, moment to moment, day to day. And you will
find that perhaps one day it's suddenly time to fast. And the next day,
watermelon. You can't stop thinking about watermelon. So if you are wise,
you'll go to the store and get a lot of it. The next day you might want rice
and bread, what have you. 

But the point is you begin to be led by a different wisdom that gently corrects
the misperceptions and habits that may not necessarily be helping you in your
desire to allow Light to be expressed. The critical issue is this: that there
be no judgment upon anyone at anytime, because each perception of judgment
actually separates you from the sevenfold peace.

When I walked upon this plane, I ate meat occasionally. I didn't have a
‘Seven-Eleven’ to run to. And when I was with those who were eating meat, at
times I ate it. I wasn't a glutton about it, but I did eat some. But insofar as
it was possible at all times, and after much time of training of the body, most
often I ate one meal a day and it was a small one. It was eaten in what you
call the middle of the day. I drank the purest of waters and I always blessed
everything. I was taught to place my hands a few inches around things and just
abide in deep gratitude until I could feel the Light enlivening that substance,
bringing it into a vibration that matched my frequency. Then I ate, each bite
with mindfulness and gratitude. 

Indeed, precious friend, it is not by accident that the first step is peace
with the body. Because, you see, the ego has used the body as a device to
bolster its perception that it is separate from God. The ego is at war with the
body, constantly. It's what creates disease. To create peace with the body,
first, now this is the key: remember who it is that's creating the peace — the
holy Son of God himself, who is already perfect and cannot be fixed because
nothing's wrong. Look then upon the body as a tool given to you by your
precious and Holy Mother, this Earth, as a means whereby the awakened Mind of
Christ can extend that Light and Love into the world in a way that it can be
recognized. Love the body but do not identify with it. Love first the union of
Father and Son, and from that right-mindedness you will be well guided in all
things. 

But if you look upon another who wants to go out and have a steak, ask within.
It may be that the moment is set before you to say a few things. Not by way of
judgment but by way of questions. "How do you feel when you eat that? Does it
bring lightness and joy or does it tend to create heaviness so that you want to
go home and go to sleep?" In that way it may be appropriate for them to begin
to look at that pattern or that habit. But it's not up to you. It's up to the
Holy Spirit, Who knows how to weave the tapestry. 

The real key is: extend Love until your brother and sister embraces that Love
for themselves and gives permission to the Holy Spirit to re-teach them how to
do all things. And if it is necessary for them to correct, make changes in the
diet, rest assured when they rest in Love, changes will come naturally. It will
not be a burden and it will not be difficult. 

Does all of that help you? 

*Thank you very much. Not to hog the microphone, but I have one more question.
Public question.*

Hog the microphone. Isn't that meat? 

*Yes, it is. The sixth of the sevenfold peace is peace with the Earthly Mother,
and our Earthly Mother is in somewhat a state of trauma right now. And it's an
aspect of the sevenfold peace I'm working on personally, and I'd like you to
speak to that, to the whole planet, but to us right here.*

Oh, indeed, precious brother, you have hit a soft spot within me, and indeed I
would well speak to the peace that must again be reborn — peace between the Son
dwelling in the dream of separation and this most precious and Holy Mother, the
Earth. For indeed this Earth is a reflection of God's Love in form. This Earth
indeed supports you no matter what you do. Its Love is so grand, its beauty so
sublime, that no words can contain it and nothing can limit it. The Earth is
alive. The Earth is an entity that takes form much like you have, and its shape
and its beauty is its quality and it is its expression of its own knowingness
that God is but Love. 

The Earth indeed embraces you and would give unto you secrets unimaginable and
would support you in giving unto you all that you could ever need. And its
bounty would be overflowing, so that man could again learn that he does not
lack for anything. And in Truth the herbs of the field can become your meat.
And this Earth awaits the day when the sleeping Son of God awakens entirely,
and in that day and in that hour, precious friend, the waters will run clean.
The airs will be purified, filled with colors that have not been seen save in
an ancient memory of a time when man walked with God and knew it. 

Indeed, this precious and Holy Earth loves you, and the Love is so grand, so
grand that you will never fathom it. How then to make peace with this Earth?
Begin by realizing that, of course, the body comes from the Earth itself, and
there is nothing in this thing that you won't find in the Earth. You are linked
to the Earth. Learn to breathe the breath of the Earth. Learn to hear her
sacred song. Embrace her beauty. Embrace the sublime energies of healing. Walk
often with the soles of your feet without shoes upon the Earth. Feel and draw
forth the power of it within the soles of your feet up to the crown of your
head. And never fail whenever you have the opportunity to sit by a flowing
water and let the sound thereof carry you beyond this world. 

Indeed, precious brother, this Earth is the greatest blessing given to the Son
of man. And peace shall be restored when peace is restored in the Mind of the
Son of God. 

Ah, I love this Earth and I was taught to honor her. And I was taught how to
arise, how to train the body without an alarm clock, by the way, to arise
before the first traces of dawn came to caress her sacred body. 

And indeed I would arise and I would go forth, and I would stand with my feet
upon the Earth and my hands lifted palms Heavenward, and I would feel that
sacred union of the things of Heaven and the things of Earth merging as
energies of Light within me, dwelling within my heart. And I sent forth rays of
this perfect marriage of the things of Heaven and the things of Earth out first
through every cell of the body, and I learned how in the twinkling of an eye to
release every last trace of disease, disharmony and fatigue by receiving the
energies of this, my precious and Holy Mother, manifested in the body of this
Earth. 

And I learned that Christ is born when the things of the Heavenly Father and
the Earthly Mother are wed and give birth to the awakened Christ Child. And
then I would sit by a tree, and I would feel its roots as it moves deeply down
into the soil and how its branches would uplift to the Light of Heaven, and I
would become one with that tree. My strength became as the strength of a mighty
oak. And then I would sit next to the flowing river and I would hear the sound
thereof, and indeed the music was so sweet to my soul. And I would become one
with that sound and it would carry me beyond this world to the domain of my
precious and Heavenly Father. 

Oh, indeed, the treasures of this Earth, all the treasures of this Earth. Make
great haste and abide with the energies of this Earth as often as you can. What
good is sleep when the power and the majesty of her energies are waiting to be
given to you just before the first rays of each dawn? Indeed. 

Embrace the whole of this Earth and make your peace with her. And that is
accomplished when you begin by acknowledging that you are the Son of God and no
one else. Then peace shall be restored between you first and the Earth, and
that peace shall spread out to embrace the whole of this creation, even the
farthest star. 

Rest assured this Earth will not taste death at the hands of minds filled with
insane ideas. Her Love and her wisdom is far too grand for that. Thank you for
asking me. 

*Thank you, Brother. Peace be with you.* 

And peace be unto you, ancient brother. 

*Jeshua, I am part of the movement called "Starbome Unlimited," and they have
endorsed many of the things that you have said this night. Are all the
teachings of Solara of this Truth that you speak and of this loving energy that
you speak of?*

First, precious friend who has waited so long to hear me say unto you that
which indeed you have heard as a reflection of the Truth etched within your
heart so very long ago, I will say unto you: the teaching of this one is one
hundred percent effective for some minds. Does it reflect the Truth? Indeed it
does, and in this I see not a ray of shadow. Not a ray of limitation. Is the
language different? Of course, because as the tapestries of the minds of
mankind have been woven, many languages have been needed. It is called the
“Tower of Babel.” And so I come and babble my way and others babble their way,
but we babble the same babble. 

{Laughter} 

Indeed. And what I say, another might not ever hear unless they happen to be
part of a certain lineage. And that teaching through that vehicle touches those
that I cannot reach, just as I reach those who would never be caught dead
listening to such babble. 

It is all being woven by a great Light that knows how to catch the attention of
every mind, and if there is one lost sheep out there that doesn't quite get
caught in the tapestries that have been woven, the languages that are being
spoken, rest assured the Holy Spirit will make up a new one. 

{Laughter} 

No one will be left without a pathway home. Does that help? 

That answers my question. Thank you. I have one more; I have one other
question. When you walked upon the Earth, you had...there was a contemporary of
yours called Pollonious of Talaro, or something like that, and he did miracles
the same as you. My question is, after your time, the church taught that he was
the Antichrist. This I feel is false but I wanted to ask you for sure. 

Well, first I just want to say that... 

*Epilonious of Tolara, Diana, I think was his name.* 

*{Apollonius of Tyana}*

Now, my miracles were real. He did his with mirrors. 

{Laughter}

Now, precious friend, that one was not the Antichrist. The Antichrist is the
judgment placed upon that one. There have been many miracle workers, and there
is nothing that I have ever done that others haven't also done, save this: it
would be appropriate to say that I was the first to complete the Atonement
within myself, and because of that, responsibility for the Atonement was given
unto me by my Father. 

There have been many miracle workers but they had not yet allowed the true
miracle to occur within themselves, as many can indeed extend healing but have
difficulty receiving it.  Did this one work miracles? Yes; there were others
that just got lost to history. 

Was the church correct in condemning? Condemnation is never correct. Only Love
is real. 

*Right. That's what I thought.*

No, it's what you've always known. 

*Yes.* 

Indeed. Good to have you here and to see you again. You know my presence has
been with you from time to time. 

*That is correct.* 

Yes. It wasn't your imagination. 

*No.* 

Now we've made it official. 

*Beautiful.* 

*I'd like to ask if it's part of my tapestry or the tapestry whether I should
make a physical move into Ashland and leave my current home?*

Beloved friend, the weight that you have carried need not be carried any
longer. Already it is been taken and removed from you and you are free to walk
forward according to your knowingness and your Truth. Gone is the time of
weakness. Reborn is the time of strength and the time of certainty of purpose.
You will find the answer to your question not coming from me in this hour
specifically, although I've just given an answer to a far deeper question. 

It is time for you to go within and trust your knowingness. How you will know
whether to do that or not has already been mirrored to you by your friend with
flat tires. How you will know what the proper course of action is, let not the
fear that can emerge from the ego be the final voice that you will listen to,
but plumb the depths and rest in the peace in the heart. There the way will be
set straight for you. 

If I were to give you the answer in the form that you were hoping for, it would
be of a great disservice to you at this moment. You are having what is called a
bit of an initiation, and you are being asked by yourself whether or not you
are going to be willing to trust and follow your knowingness 

Rest assured, when in your privacy you indeed go within, if you call upon me, I
will come and abide with you and you will feel my countenance upon you as you
have in this evening. But I cannot give you that answer. It must be revealed
within yourself for yourself. And from that will come indeed the rebirthing of
a great strength that you have kept hidden from yourself out of an ancient
sense of unworthiness, and that is the weight that is removed from you. Your
time is upon you now. 

*Thank you.* 

Thank you for your courage. We both know what you are going through internally.
Time for some shifting, time for some healing, time for some growth. Time for
awakening. 

I was once told in a reading that I had been with Jesus, and I was to remember
that time as the laughing Jesus. I was glad to hear of your joy at that time. 

It's all a front. I'm actually very serious. Do you know the picture of me? 

*Uhhuh.* 

The artist kind of had a bit of a flashback to an ancient memory. For that one
looked upon me in the hustle and bustle of Jerusalem and saw me with my head
back, laughing uproariously. And I was at that time surrounded by several
friends, some of what you might call disciples — what a boring word — and
indeed we were being a bit outrageous. I left an imprint, and I had a little
hand in activating that imprint so that that picture could begin to come back
and seep into the seriousness that has been built up around me that is entirely
false.

And indeed, precious friend, there is a very ancient reason why you only feel
an attraction to that aspect of who I am. Indeed. Nice to see you again. The
body's a bit different. Oh, well. Are you enjoying it? 

*It's had its wars but I am starting to enjoy it.* 

Because you are enjoying yourself. 

*Yes.* 

So do me a favor. Laugh often in remembrance of me. Memories are going to begin
to come back. They've been kept at bay because of an ancient hurt, an old fear
that your friend really had been taken from you and you knew not where to look.
Look no further; I am with you. It is safe to remember and to release — while
you're laughing, of course. Indeed. 

So, by accident you came here. 

*Nobody wanted to help set up.* 

*And live with you.* 

{Laughter} 

You, too. There will not be a veil of separation again. I said to you then,
"Rest assured, I will come for you when the time is ready." Voila! 

*I have a question. From your ministry in the Earth plane there came forward the
teaching of the significance of the blood, and I would like to know the inner
meaning, if there is any, to that question of the power of the blood?*

Ah, yes. It has been amazing to me to watch how so many theologians have been
paid so well to debate and question and try to figure it all out, and how many
brothers have been angry one with another just because the other wouldn't see
it their way. 

I want to share with you that there's no big surprise, no magical, mystical
element. It simply means the blood is that which flows, that which is of life,
and that is all it really represents. And when you understand the significance
of the blood, you understand that which flows through you and gives you life is
the remembrance that Christ dwells in you. That which is of death is when the
blood no longer flows, it no longer circulates, because you have forgotten the
Truth of who you are. It's really quite simple, and frankly, it was borrowed
from previous times in terms of a metaphor to use. There is no great power in
the blood itself. There is only power in the remembrance that it signifies the
breath of life flowing through you, and that breath is the remembrance, "I and
my Father are One." 

*Thank you. That clears that up for me. Perhaps we should create a new Christian
primer.* 

Indeed. 

*Jeshua, I have a question. I have confusion about how I came to be in this
body, how I came to be, the significance of being here tonight, and what I can
do to facilitate what I am here to do? Thank you.*

First, beloved brother, the confusion comes only from the fact that there is
not a clear remembrance of your having put out the call, and that's okay. It's
really insignificant. Rest assured you are not here by accident. And you have
carried with yourself for a very long time a perception that it's for others to
take the lead. It's for others to know the things of the past and the things of
the future. It's for others to have some quality of specialness that would make
them stand out in the spiritual crowd, so the speak. That within you there are
no unique or powerful gifts. 

Precious friend, you carry one of the greatest gifts and the power of it will
begin now to blossom. It is the gift of your presence, the gift of your ability
simply to be, without need of trying to get anything from the future, without
need of casting judgment upon anybody, without need of feeling there is
something lacking. Just your presence brings a Light that is like a beacon, and
as you allow — the most important key to the Kingdom, by the way, allowing — as
you allow yourself to simply acknowledge and listen well, that you need do
nothing, much will begin to be done around you and through you. 

My only suggestion is that you consider becoming a bit more active in
communicating with the circle beginning to revolve in this area around the
point of Light being created. In other words, kind of move in and set up shop.
Communicate more with those that are doing things in this area. Begin to attend
some meditations that are going on. Just have fun. Do all of those things. But
above all, for you it is absolutely critical that you allow your, what has been
called by others a mantra, to be simply this: "I need do nothing, save to just
be." That's more than enough for now. 

Put aside your confusion and rest in faith. And from faith clarity will be
born, rest assured. The tendency in your mind is that, "There must be something
else that I can do. What can I develop in myself?" Nothing. You need only be
willing, and if you give the Holy Spirit just this much willingness, rest
assured, if there's a mountain to be moved, it will be moved. You need do
nothing save remember and be at peace. 

*Thank you.* 

I'm not saying that that's all you'll be doing in the future. 

*Jeshua, I don't really have a question. I just want to say, "Thank you." I
really appreciate the confirmation that you have made for me and the Light that
you've brought me. Thank you.*

Beloved brother, rest for just a moment. Do you not feel a peace descending
upon you even now? And perhaps perceived and felt by you as a gentle warmth? 

*I do.* 

Where does it seem to be coming from? Can you sense a direction? 

*From behind me to my heart.* 

Yes. And you know that I am indeed in this very moment standing behind you. I
do not come into this body and I am not limited by blending through this mind
in order to activate this and communicate through words. Indeed, I am with you
now and the warmth that you feel is indeed an energy being directed by me to
your heart. It will begin to even deepen the healing that has been occurring
all night long. 

Precious friend, thank you for answering my invitation. 

*Thank you for answering the question I couldn't ask.* 

You are welcome. Indeed. 

*Hi, Jeshua.* 

Hello. 

*I have one question and it's kind of a big question. I want to know what
created God?*

Nothing. Nothing. I have said that the holy Son of God is unlimited and that is
true. And yet, that which is created has a limit in the sense that while the
Son of God has been created by God, the Son of God has not created God and,
therefore, remains the created. 

What, then, is God? Mystery beyond all mysteries. Love beyond all Love. Light
incomprehensible without beginning and without end, a Light that is present
everywhere to the mind that is awake and sees. What is God? She is beauty. I
thought I should get that in. 

{Laughter} 

She is grace and She is compassion and She is power and wisdom indeed. She is
that which flows forth and gives of Herself without measure. And out of Love
overflowing creates the image of Herself as the holy Daughter of God, that
which you are: great rays of Light forever and eternally pouring forth from the
One Light that is never separate from the ray of Light. What has created God?
Nothing. God has no beginning and no end. And in Her do you abide always, now.
And this world, this world holds no power over the precious and holy offspring
of God: you. 

Good question. 

*Thank you.* 

*Would you expand on what you said earlier about Ashland being a center of
Light? I'd like to hear more about that.*

Always wanting to look around the corner. 

*Uhhuh.* 

Be careful not to fall into seriousness, for if indeed this has already begun
to arise seemingly without anybody directing it, you can rest assured that that
same guidance will continue and not be lost unto you. 

The point of Light has begun and from my perspective you could say that the
Light is beginning to circulate now around that point, around that center, a
little faster, a little brighter, which means it is going to start to be
recognized. It is going to start to take some shape, and it will depend on the
willingness of those of you gathered to begin to deliberately set aside some
times to celebrate — just to get together, to play, to laugh, to extend your
gratitude — and also in each of your own ways hold that frequency. Send out the
message. Let those whom you think you have forgotten know that the place is
secured, the feast is set and the invitations are out. 

Separation between minds that love simply does not exist. And that means, as
you hold that image within the mind as you meditate, as you pray, as you walk,
as you wash the dishes — it doesn't matter what you are doing — as you send
that Light out that you are ready to receive them, more will begin coming, and
that's part of that process where the energies swirling around the point of
Light begin to pick up speed and take on more and more form. 

The primary focus is, shall we say, the anchoring of those energies, more than
getting serious and building buildings and creating formal organizations. It's
past that point. There is no need for a formal organization. Let Love be your
guide. It's all going to happen. It is happening. Now, the only way you can
interrupt it is to get really serious and refuse to play and to laugh and to
sing and to dance, refuse to talk to each other, refuse to give each other a
hug in the middle of the street; then you can delay it. But if you do the
opposite, the process will accelerate. 

Now, in that, beloved friend, you know well there is some very concrete
instruction about what needs to be done to get around the corner. Fair enough? 

*Yes. Thank you.* 

*Jeshua, I wanted to say one thing before this evening closes, and then I wanted
to thank you for our assistance in the circumstances happening between Cathy
and I and that your words were very healing and a very confusing, confusing
experience to me.*

Beloved friend, precious Child of Light divine, undefiled forever, the pure and
one substance with all that God is — God is but Love — rest assured that for
healing to be extended through my touch, my presence or my words, there must be
a place within you ready to receive it. Healing requires two. 

Be you therefore glad that you were willing to provide the place and you opened
the door. I did not open it for you. I merely entered because you invited me
in. That is what has brought the healing: your willingness. It was my delight
and my honor to have something to do with it. And my promise unto you remains
true. And it is the same promise given unto this my ancient friend that you
call Cathy. For I said "Whatsoever you will ask, I will do." And that promise I
give forth unto you now. I am at your beck and call. Call upon me and I am with
you, and my presence shall restore your peace because that is what you are
choosing, and my strength shall become your strength, and the day will arise
when you are going to be puzzled, for you are going to look and you will no
longer be able to tell where you end and I begin. 

Intimacy, indeed. How do you like three a.m.? 

*Ahh, well, it could be okay.* 

Perhaps we'll move slowly toward that. 

*Thank you.* 

Would a box of chocolates help? 

*Perhaps.* 

Indeed. 

Now, I want to let you in on a little secret. I'm the guest that never leaves. 

{Loud and long laughter} 

You've invited me in. I love you. 

*Thank you.* 

Indeed. 

*Jeshua, how does one let go of resistance?* 

You can't. But there is One Who can take it from you. The attempt to let go of
resistance actually comes from the part of the mind that yet believes it is in
control — that is, it can make it happen. Grace reveals the fact that not only
of yourself do you not need to do anything, of yourself you can't do anything. 

Beloved friend, well have I watched your struggle with that question. It's
woken me up at times. Well, it would have, if I ever slept. Now, the one thing
you haven't done is to recognize that you can't do it. All you need to do is
give it to me. Have some fun with it. You need not bring a bunch of religious
seriousness to it. Just say, "Hey, look. If you're so hot, then take this."
Give it to me and I will unwind your fingers from around an ancient hurt and an
old fear and resistance shall indeed melt away. And yet, you will not notice
the day or hour when that has occurred. You will only begin to notice its
effects. And then one day you are going to see what's happened and you will be
startled, and you will look around and say, "When did that happen? Where did
the resistance go?" 

And a certain “Thief” will have broken in in the night and will have stolen the
cobwebs of shadows long since outgrown and you will only notice the absence of
resistance. Fair enough? 

*Yes.* 

And I'll send you my bill later. 

*Thank you.* 

Remember, just begin the gentle practice of giving it to me. Unless, of course,
you really are intent on keeping it. It is safe now. It is safe now. This time
your vulnerability will not be misused by anyone. Indeed. 

I honor you, and I ask all of you who have ever loved me that indeed if you
would honor me, honor first the Son that dwells in your heart as fully as it
dwells within mine. Be you therefore glad, for the end of the journey is at
hand. We have come in this hour to the threshold of the Kingdom, and the final
step is not one that we take but one that is taken for us by the One Who has
sent us forth. 

And in the end of all journeying an ancient journey ends and a new one begins:
no longer the journey to the Kingdom but the journey within it, in which we
walk hand in hand, gathering our brothers and sisters as we go with great joy
and with great celebration, by merely extending the ray of Light that we are,
until the whole of creation is enfolded in our Love and we return it to the One
Whom we love above all created things — that which has been called my Holy
Father. And God is but Love. Think you therefore with the Mind of God and
extend only loving thoughts, because what you teach is indeed what you learn. 

My blessings I would bestow upon you. My peace I would extend unto you. I would
give it unto you. Wrap yourself up with it anytime you want. Remember, I am
with you always. And yet the blessings that I would bestow are not mine to
give. They are yours. And I can give them to you only if you receive them. And
the peace I would wrap you with is the peace of yourself: that great ray of
Light forever shining that knows no beginning and indeed will know no end.

If I live in you, you are awake; and yet, if I live in you, you are alive and
it is you who lives within me. And when I look upon you, I know that which I
am, and we are far closer than brother and brother and brother and sister. And
someday you will come to look upon me as I look upon you. For in Truth when I
look upon you, I have to ask the Holy Spirit where I end and you begin and take
it on faith because I still can't see the boundary. 

Look then, and learn to see me with the very same eyes through which I see you
and the Son is returned and the journey completed. Laugh, sing, dance and play
and be outrageous. And in that, you have taken up your cross and followed me,
for you have learned that the cross of the resurrection is made of Light.
Therefore, my way is easy and without effort. 

Peace be unto the holy and only begotten Son of God, who arises from an ancient
sleep to fill this world with the presence of His Light. Her Light. Go in
peace. I am with you always. 

Amen.

 

 

