---
title: Joy I
fb:
  desc: "Way of Mastery: The Early Years - Joy I"
---

Now we begin.

Indeed, greetings unto you, beloved and holy and precious friends.
Indeed, greet­ings unto you, holy children of Light divine. I come forth
with great joy to abide with you because I love you, and the joy comes
from the simple fact that when I look upon you, I see naught but Light.
I see naught but the face of Christ. I see unlimited potential,
unlimited compassion, unlimited love, unlimited peace. These things are
the characteristics of your only reality.

Indeed, I look beyond the body and I look beyond the history of your
perceptions and constructs that you have created about yourself and what
the world is for, and I see the Light that shines forever radiantly
transcending this world and all worlds, and I see the Light you are that
is already together with me from before the foundation of all worlds,
and I see the Light that participates with me in the atonement of the
momentary dream of separation between the Holy Father and His precious
and only creation: you.

Now, if you are listening carefully, that should strike you as a little
odd that indeed you are participating with me from that place of perfect
union with God in the very process of atoning your own perception that
you are separate from God. And that is why I have said you will awaken
to your own call—not mine and not another teacher’s, not another
master’s. You always awaken to your own call.

But because the call comes from the place in you that is of Truth, and
it is a place that you have perhaps repressed and can no longer believe
abides within you, what you do, you see, is that you reach your left
hand out and you give a little telegram to me and you say,

> *Jeshua, deliver this telegram to me and make sure I get the message.
> And then indeed I will begin to awaken from my own dream.*

And since I don’t have much else to do these days, I take the telegram
and I look at it and I notice the date and the hour; and because I love
you, indeed I come to you in that hour and I whisper to you in the quiet
of your heart,

> *Precious friend, the time for awakening is now.*

And there comes then a stirring in the depth of your heart and the depth
of your soul, and a new journey begins. Not a journey deeper into dreams
but a journey that begins to lift you from all dreams.

And in part of that process you will believe that someone has come
a-knocking upon your heart and perhaps they have forced their way upon
you just a little bit, but indeed it is not true. For *awakening can
only come from absolute freedom*. Therefore, indeed, if you can
acknowledge that you have begun the process of awakening, give yourself
credit because you have heard your own call.

Does all of that make sense to you?

It is very, very important. And why? Because the small part of the mind
that you have mistakenly become identified with, that I have called the
ego, would lead you to believe that you are powerless and therefore need
the constructs born of the ego, born of the very perception of
separation from God, to find your way in life, indeed to keep you safe.
And the ego would tell you that you are the body, that you are subject
to birth and suffering and death.

The ego would cleverly lead you to believe that there might be some
other masters that have somehow “managed” ascension and no longer
participate in this realm, and the ego will tell you it’s okay to wish
that you could accomplish that, and at the very same time it will
whisper into your other ear,

> *But you know you really can’t because you are weak and you are frail.
> You are far too busy and, after all, you’ve been a wretched, sinful
> creature.*

That somehow, somewhere, you have failed; and because of that you know
that you cannot awaken.

But it’s okay; go ahead, struggle to do so if you want. And each time
you seem to come close, the voice of the ego rears its head and says,

> *No, no, no. It’s not okay to receive that much joy.*

And so you begin to contract the heart yet again because it is a pattern
learned in the mind, and, if you would receive it, you have been
operating under the guise of an illusion in which you have struggled to
free the heart, and as it opens up you then contracted; and when you
contract, it feels like you because you are used to it. And that is how
dreams become comfortable—but it does not change them into reality. They
remain eternally an illusion.

And the Truth of your being is that Light that I see shining in you
radiantly at all times, the Light in which the Truth of your being
resides in perfect safety—perfect safety and perfect peace—and unto you
is given all power under Heaven and Earth to allow that Light you are to
*descend*, to become incarnated, if you will, to shine out through even
the cells of the body, to radiate your Light out into this world.

And why is that important? Because you have believed that you were
something other than that Light. You will not learn the Truth of your
beingness until you are willing to allow that Light to shine through you
so that you can see the miracles it begins to create­ in your life, so
that it will shine upon your brothers and sisters and show you the
reality of their being, not what the ego would have you believe of them.
And as you see those miracles pop up in front of your eyes, you then
must acknowledge that the Light is in you now—the Light that heals your
perception and shows you not time, but eternity; not an unsafe world but
a world that is perfectly safe, and it is safe because *your Light* is
in it.

When I look upon you, I see a great ray of Light that has no beginning
and cannot know an end. I see a great ray of Light. Its strands shine
out, embracing and touch­ing the furthest stars, embracing and touching
all the multifarious planes of creation, and there are many of them. I
see a Light that embraces the whole of all things that have ever arisen
and will ever pass away. I see a Light that shines forth from the Mind
of my Holy Father, made in His image and, therefore, one with Him
eternally. I see a Light comprised of compassion and grace and ease and
power and creativity.

For indeed you are created to create like God, and that is why every
loving cre­ation is eternal and every loving thought is true. And why?
Because God is but Love and His only creation is you. And Love can only
beget that which is lovely. That is the one and simple fact that you
must come to re-member, to re-cognize: that if you exist at all, you
must be the presence of Love. And if you are that Love, right now, here
in this room, you are free to begin the process of releasing—or perhaps
even ending—the dream in which a host of thoughts have arisen that have
mistakenly distracted you into believing that you are something less
than the holy Son of God.

I have said to you many times that the greatest of keys to the Kingdom
is the key of allowing. For allowing requires trust. Allowing requires
vulnerability. Allowing requires that you let the Holy Spirit bring
correction to your mind and you no longer strive to make that happen,
and as you begin to rest into the key of allowing, peace begins to
descend even into the cells of the body, and you find that you react
differently. You smile even in the midst of situations that used to
create such havoc within the mind. And you will look upon your brother
or your sister and even if they are casting stones at you, you will
marvel at the great Light that shines just beneath their awareness of
themselves. And indeed you *will* know the great liberation that comes
when suddenly the shutters are thrown open and you realize

> *My God, it’s true. I am that Light. I am that Light I have been
> seeking for countless lifetimes. I am that Light and I am that Light,
> now.*

And then, you see, the body itself begins to be freed up a bit, for you
will no longer be trying to stuff your emotions into the little pockets
of cells, saying,

> *Hold on to this stuff. I don’t want to look at it.*

Instead, you will say,

> *Okay, open the hatch and let it out.*

And it will begin to bubble up, for, you see, when Light comes to shine
upon shadows, it stirs them up and they will run like crazy, trying to
find a corner to hide in; but there is no longer a corner, for even the
body becomes filled with Light and the shadows of past memories and old
emotions begin to be released. But instead of fearing them, you embrace
them. You embrace them, knowing—*knowing*—that as you love what you have
feared, you embrace it and you therefore transcend it.

That is why ultimately, you see, healing occurs only in the mind. And
what is healed? *The perception that fear must be feared.* Fear itself
is an illusion. It doesn’t mean you don’t experience it. Much of what
you call your dreams, when you awaken in the morning you would say,

> *Well, that was unreal. It was just a dream.*

Fear is no different, and if you would well receive it, *fear is the
foundation of all dreams— all dreams of time, all dreams of
separation, all dreams of anguish find themselves rooted in fear.*

But when you allow, when you truly are willing to allow the Light you
are to shine upon all shadows born of illusion, you know that in you
there is a power to say,

> *I am open. Bring them forth. Throw open the hatches.*

And you will look at the memories that you may carry of times you have
failed, of times you have hurt and been hurt, and you will say,

> *Oh, look at that. Yes, I can feel that. I remember that one—boy was I
> ever into it then.*

And you’ll shine your Light on it and you will extend forgiveness to
yourself, and the shadow itself becomes dissolved into the Light that
shines upon it.

Light added to Light only increases your radiance. And after a while the
momentum­ gets going so fast that you can’t stop the process. There is
no weekend off. And at any time when things begin to flood up—and many
of you know what I am talking about—always continue to shine your Light
on whatever arises within you. Do not become identified­ with the
thoughts of fear and the thoughts of limitation and the thoughts of
loss. That is the voice of the ego saying,

> *No, no, no. Don’t identify yourself with Light just yet. I fear my
> own demise of power.*

Just there, just there is the greatest of blessings given to you, given
to you of the Father who loves you: *The freedom that can never be taken
from you, the freedom of your choice—the freedom of your choice to
look upon all things that arise with the Love of Christ.*

All loving thoughts are true. Everything else is an appeal for help and
healing. Even within yourself. And so, when that voice within you—some
of you occasionally know what this is like—rears its head and says,

> *No, no, you can’t do it. Don’t leap off the cliff,*

love it and realize that voice is not yours. If you need to, you can
imagine that a stranger has slipped in, in the middle of the night, and
is sitting in your living room, believing now that that home belongs to
the stranger. And that stranger is the voice that would have you believe
that you are other than what you are created to be: The thought of
perfect Love in form.

Love cannot be accomplished. It cannot be gained. It cannot even truly
be fashioned. Love cannot be found because it is not an object outside
of yourself. It cannot be created for it has always been. Love waits in
certainty. Love waits in patience for the holy Son of God, who has but
dreamed the dream of separation, to rest for just a moment and to be
willing to choose anew, to turn from the roar and the din of the
world—and the world is not outside of your own mind—to choose again to
touch the place of perfect­ peace and of grace. And there Love shines.
And to look upon the face of Love is to see and know your Self.

And in the end of all seeking and in the end of all striving, the
awakened Son rejoices and laughs uproariously and says,

> *My goodness, what a good dream I’ve had. But now the time of
> wakefulness is upon me.*

And for a little while you seem to find yourself yet in space and time,
and you look down at the hands of “the” body formerly called “your” body
and you marvel. You look at the body anew. For what seemed to be
something that was always filled with conflict between a place that
imprisoned you and a place you hoped to find safety, the thing that you
don’t even understand what it is, has been translated—translated into a
beautiful and holy temple, translated into nothing­ more, nothing less,
than a simple means through which the awakened Mind of Christ extends
love to the parts of himself formerly perceived as strangers and
friends, brothers and sisters, so that the wholeness, the whole Mind of
Christ might awaken and merge back together into its own reality.

Now that happens to you more often than you give yourself credit for.

When you set aside every fear, when you set aside every need, when you
set aside believing that you know what your needs are, when you are
willing to just stop judging your brother and for a moment you look into
someone’s eyes and you embrace eternity—and everyone in this room knows
what that is like because you’ve done it a million times; no matter how
fleeting, you have done it a million times—and that moment of no thought
and no time in which the two fragments that seem to be separated by
bodies become one and the Light of Love shines through the eyes, for
indeed the eyes are the window of the soul, and those sparks of Love
meet. Not a love that craves. Not a love that needs attachment, but a
Love that recognizes Love.

That is called the Holy Instant and it makes all things new. And that is
why your relationship to your brother and sister is the most incredible
blessing, the most precious possession you can ever have. Each moment of
relationship provides you with the opportunity to choose holiness and
not specialness. Love instead of fear. Forgiveness instead of judgment.

And because you look upon your brother and because you look upon your
sister and you realize they are the means of your salvation, you will no
longer tolerate error in yourself, and you will look upon them and see
the face of Christ. You will learn to look past the body, to look past
time and history. You will learn to discern that radiant Light which
shines in them as it shines in you. And then you will learn the magic
involved in the simplicity of this teaching: *You will learn what you
choose to teach, and in* *teaching you must learn it for yourself.*

That is why there is no time to lose. Each moment is the opportunity for
awakening. Each moment the opportunity for healing, that the things of
time that have seemed to be a burden upon you and upon your brother can
be placed aside and the mantle of peace, like a gentle dove, can descend
upon you, wrapping you in the shawl of a perfect Love, bringing such joy
to your being that you cannot find words to describe it and no way to
contain it. And you finally realize,

> *I don’t have any choice. I have to give it away. My Father keeps
> pouring so much of it into me, it just keeps picking up the speed. I
> just have to keep giving it away.*

And then the miracle has occurred.

Gone is the seeker. Gone is the one who needs. Reborn is the finder.
Reborn is the one who gives, who lets the Light of Christ shine so
radiantly within them with every breath and within every thought and
with every word and with every deed that they themselves marvel at the
miracles that unfold. And you begin to dance through time, and you see
that the Holy Spirit has translated it into a magical kingdom in which
every day is filled with the grace of miracles. And every day is a
little better than the one before, and the only thing you need to pay
attention to is to simply watch so that you don’t become a little
contracted against the on-flowing tidal wave of joy that descends to
light up your mind and your heart and even the cells of your body.

You have a saying in your language,

> *Let it rip.*

See, you must understand that when I walked upon this plane the language
that I was given to use was rather serious for the most part—rather
formalized—and so there were some limitations in how the Gospel could be
expressed; at least when words were used, but not when there was dancing
and laughter and singing and rejoicing and embracing.

Unto you it is given in this day and in this hour to truly look around
you and see,

> *All that I need for my salvation, all that I need for my awakening is
> presented to me here. For here is my brother and my sister who has
> walked together with me since before time is, given to me of God. And
> as I love them, I love the One who has sent me forth. And as I love
> them, I honor them. And as I honor them, I learn to honor the Son that
> dwells within my own heart.*

And in honoring that Son, the Atonement is completed on Earth as it is
already completed in Heaven. And Heaven is your home.

Delight—listen well—*delight in the blessings of time and see not a
single moment as that which would imprison you.* For there is nothing
outside of you, while within you is the absolute freedom of choice,
given wholly and never earned, in which you can look upon the things of
time, each event that time seems to require of you, and you can bring
the blessing of Christ to it. You can choose to radiate instead of
contract. You can choose unlimitedness instead of limitation. You can
choose Love instead of fear. That is the great gift of time.

Because time was created in error, it is then translated into the means
by which you awaken from time itself. Therefore, use it constructively.
Realize that you live in a domain in which avoidance of relationship is
absolutely impossible. Therefore, embrace your relationships, even the
ones that push your buttons. For, rest assured, they are the ones given
unto you in that moment—and not a year before or a year after—they are
the ones that provide the very stepping stones upon which you are asked
to walk so that you can pass through an old ring of fear and realize
that you’ve just awakened a little more fully. And the power of the
radiance of that Light you are has penetrated, incarnated, a little more
deeply into the mind, and even into the body.

So, next, when someone casts stones at you, rush up and give them a kiss
on the cheek. Say,

> *Thank you so much. My goodness gracious, now I can heal this part of
> myself.*

Above all things, never let your vigilance slip.

I am sorry. Should I don the cloak of the savior of the world and kneel
at your feet and beg forgiveness?

Oh, no. That would be a funny picture.

It would indeed. It has always been a funny picture to me that others
would put the mantle of the savior of the world upon my shoulders so as
to avoid responsibility for awakening themselves. And I would scratch my
head and wonder,

> *Why would they want to do that?*

when in the Truth deep within them they know that they must place the
mantle upon themselves and see themselves as equal unto me, who has been
sent to be only your brother and your friend.

If Christ dwells in me—and I assure you that Christ dwells in me—that
same Light must dwell in you equally. For if it does not, it means that
God has created a rather imbalanced creation. And whenever you have felt
unbalanced, it is because you have denied the part of you that is true
and real and whole and lovely—forgiven and loved wholly.

Listen well to what I have just shared with you, for there you will find
the key that brings the mind gently back to peace each time you remember
it &hellip; each time you remember­ it. Each moment in time when you are not
wholly joyous, it is because you have forgotten the Truth about
yourself. When that really begins to sink in, you are going to feel a
great weight lifted from your shoulders—the weight of perceiving that
what has stolen your peace has come from somewhere outside your mind. It
never has.

I have been working for five years with this my beloved brother to seek
to teach him one thing: *there is no set of circumstances that can
dictate the choice one makes between love and fear*—just as there are no
special circumstances you must strive for and achieve before you have
the power to choose between love and fear. The choice and that power
abides in you now. It is equally in a newborn child as it is within you.
And the process of life, the meaning of time, is merely to create a
field in which you can reawaken to the power of your own choice.

At first as you recognize it, it may not feel too good because you will
look upon some of your creations and go,

> *Whoa.*

That which is called “being in hell”—what some of your psychologists
might call being psychotic, neurotic and all of the rest—is simply­
because a part of the mind has looked upon its creations in which it has
created unlike God out of fear, and it has taken upon itself the mantle
of guilt. And guilt creates a block, so you spin in the same circle over
and over again. That is what hell is: it is being in a rut.

But when you look upon your creations that seem to elicit unpleasant
feelings— because perhaps you see how your creations involve
manipulation or control or what have you—when you look upon those things
and remember the Truth that they do not leave a single trace upon the
holy Mind of Christ, and when you look upon them and realize that *your
Father doesn’t even see them*, you are free to be reborn in this moment
and to allow your life to be made anew.

Oh, beloved friends, carry not the weight of the past upon you for it is
gone already. It is gone already! And the heavy bag that you have been
carrying upon your shoulders was removed, before you experienced it, by
the Love that created you; and you have been weighed down only by
illusion.

Would you not choose to join with me in casting off the bag that is no
longer there? You can make a ritual of it if you would like. Indeed, go
to one of your intersections, and underneath the thing that hangs from
the wires that tells you when you should go and when you should stop,
create a circle of precious crystals. Heap up dried branches. And in the
middle of what is called the rush hour, walk as though you are burdened
by a heavy bag. Drop it off of your shoulder, and then kick it into the
circle and light a match. And then dance freely about your circle of
precious crystals. Knock on the hoods of the automobiles of those that
are honking at you and say,

> *Come, watch my bag burn. Come dance with me.*

\[Laughter\]

You might be surprised: a few will get out and do a jig with you.

In short, don’t make the process of awakening so serious.

Is it not rather interesting that seriousness is what creates the world
of confusion, of pain, and it’s an illusion? Therefore, you bring the
bag of seriousness to the very process whereby you think you are going
to wake up, and you do your techniques, you read your texts, you
memorize all of the lines, but still the bag is on your shoulder and you
can’t quite figure out why it’s still there. The bag is filled with the
weight of seriousness­—and joy, you see, is made of Light. Isn’t she?

And that is why whenever you are not wholly joyous, you have identified
yourself with an illusion, a bag that was already removed from your
shoulders in the very first moment that the holy Son of God began to
fall asleep and to create the dreams of creations­ that are unlike
God’s. And the Holy Father reached into your dreams and took the tiny
bag from your shoulders and dropped it into the fires of purification,
if you will, and throughout every incarnation you have ever lived the
bag has not been there, but you have perceived that it is still with
you.

And now we come to the point of what I would share with you in this
hour: The *Way*, the way in life that speaks of perfect peace is not a
way of striving. It is the way of allowing. The way in life that
demonstrates the Truth of your being is not the way that the world has
taught you because in it there can be no seeking. The way in life that
allows the Light of Christ to incarnate right where you thought you were
requires only that you put into practice the acknowledgement that you
are that Light, the Word being made flesh in this moment.

That is the shift that must come to the mind. I don’t care if you
practice complex spiritual techniques for ten thousand lifetimes. I
don’t care if you learn how to walk on water and heal the sick. After
all is said and done, there is yet one step that must be taken: your
willingness to put to sleep the dream of the seeker and to be the
presence of one who has found. And the trick of the course, is that the
ego will say,

> *Well, I can’t do that because I haven’t found it yet.*

And what I am saying to you is that in your choice, held in the mind, to
simply say,

> *I and my Father are one. I am the one who has found, and that Light
> begins to live through me now,*

that is the way that you find it—by acknowledging that you possess what
you have believed you do not. Seems rather paradoxical.

I have said many times that *the Truth of the Kingdom is diametrically
opposed to the truth of the world.*

If your world says that you must struggle, then the way of the Kingdom
must be the way of ease.

If the world says you must seek, the way of the Kingdom must be that you
have already found.

If the world says you are guilty, the way of the Kingdom must say there
is no guilt.

If the way of the world teaches you that you are born to suffer and die,
the way of the Kingdom must say that you are eternal and do not abide
within the space and volume of a body.

If the way of the world says that your mind is your brain, the way of
the Kingdom will say the Mind of Christ is that which radiates,
animating the brain and the body so that it can serve as a means of
communicating the Love of God.

If the way of the world says you are frail, the way of the Kingdom says
you are the presence of eternal strength.

And if the way of the world says it’s not good to have too much fun,
what do you think the Kingdom says?

\[Laughter\]

Fun! Party!

That is a good phrase, “Party.”

Abide in that infinite Light of joy. Bring it down and express it to the
world so that the world sees the demonstration of the Truth. So, you
see, the theme of this hour is this—it is a three letter word: JOY. Joy
is the theme of this hour. Joy is the theme of every moment. Joy is the
reality of your being. Joy is that which infuses the cells of your body.
Joy is that which seeks to radiate from the great ray of Light that you
are and to descend through the crown of the head and to explode out
through the very fingertips—rays of Light exploding in all directions.

Joy is that which will create laughter and smiles. Joy is that which
seeks to bring lightness to the heart. Joy is that which heals. Joy is
that which brings forth unlimited power to create like God. Joy— joy is
the sign of an awakened heart and a corrected mind. Indeed.

And the greatest of blessings, the greatest of recognitions, is this:
You cannot cre­ate the means in this world to become joyous, but you can
bring the joyousness you are to the circumstances of this world; and
when you do that, you are the savior of the world. You are the one sent
forth of God, enlisted in what seems to be the Foreign Legion, indeed.

Can you come to touch that place of reality in you?

I want to share with you right now that part of the work that I seek to
do in this world, not only through this my beloved brother but through
countless others, is a correction: the healing of a deeply held
perception that somebody else must be the one that the Bible is talking
about. Somebody else must be the one who is the Word of God made flesh.
Somebody else must be the one who is to be the Messiah ... If you know
that you exist, rest assured you are that one.

> *Who? Me?*

Yes, you. Rest assured I, too, said, “Who? Me?” And then I realized­ if
somebody didn’t do it, nobody would ever get it. I was the first, if you
would well receive it, to complete the Atonement as a man: completely,
irrevocably. And because of that, my Father has put me in charge, if you
will, of the Atonement. And I come to give you the Love that you are.

You may think that somehow I give you strength, but actually I’m rather
good at sleight of hand and while I am talking to you, I reach into your
hip pocket and grab your strength and your love, and I bring it up and I
put it back to your face and you believe,

> *Wow. How did this one named Jeshua do that?*

Those of you that have tasted miracles because of our interaction in
this form, is it not time to give yourself equal credit? For the
strength and the Light that is brought forth, whatever degree of
miracles of healing that have come and have been given to you, has come
because you have chosen to awaken to your own call. I am just your
deliv­ ery boy.

Ah. Joy.

Can you feel it? Can you feel it now? Are you willing to throw off the
shackles­ of the mind and heart right now in this moment? Whether you
are sitting or lying down, it makes no difference. Are you willing,
indeed, to let joy radiate through the cells of the body? Are you doing
it? Can you feel it?

Turn the attention of your mind as if you could look and see every cell.
Just go in there and turn the knob and open the door and pour Light.
Imagine, right now, you are looking down upon a body that has never been
yours, and you are deciding to fill it with Light. Go ahead and do it.
There is no great secret. No great technique. It’s not going to take you
six months of workshops to learn how to do it.

\[Laughter\]

Hmm. That’s why they call them “work-shops.” Why not have “gatherings of
celebration of the Truth?” Are you doing it? Don’t sit there passively.
Do it. Bring the joy in. Enlighten the cells. Let them get lighter and
lighter and lighter and filled with joy. Feel how it brings the breath
more deeply into the body. Feel it down to the tips of the toes.

Yes, Light. Let there be Light. Say goodbye to the shadows of the past.
They are with you no longer. Light. Let there be Light. Radiate it down
deeper and deeper. Feel the heart beat a little bit faster. It’s called
passion for joy. Feel it. Yes! Have what you call an orgasm with joy.
Bring Light and laughter and play to every moment.

\[Singing\] Where has all the seriousness gone? Has it been a long time
in passing?

Who cares? Once it’s gone, it’s gone.

We abide together now. We are the great rays of Light that shine forth
through the Mind of God, and we bring a new vision indeed to this planet
and to this Earth. We are the joy. We are the Light. We are the bringers
of the Gospel. We live it. We are the Truth. Look at us. Yes. We’re the
ones that have burned our bags in the intersections.

If you want to keep yours...

\[Loud laughter\]

&hellip; go right ahead. Indeed.

That is what it’s all about. There isn’t anything you need that you do
not already possess. And when you throw open the shutters of the heart
and allow desire born of a pure heart to lead your way, what you thought
you must fear, called passion, what you thought you must fear, called
your dreams and aspirations, what you thought you must fear because it
might make you stick out in the crowd will no longer be a bit of
concern. Trust me. I know about sticking out in crowds.

\[Laughter\]

Some of you in this room did not want me to stick out in the crowd
because you feared that the world could take me from you. Surprise!

The world just freed me to be with you always, beyond all of your
perceptions of birth and death, beyond your perceptions of suffering and
doubt and struggle, beyond your perceptions of separation born of time.
The world served my intention well, and the drama was played out and the
resurrection was completed. And if you believe in me, you believe in the
reflection given to the world of who you are. For the life of Jeshua ben
Joseph is your own—as yours is mine. That is how intimately united we
are. We share one Heart and one Mind when we rest in the Truth of the
infinite and eternal joy that is the presence of the Love of God in us.

And when others say,

> *Lo, the Kingdom is here,*

and another says,

> *No, the Kingdom is there,*

look them in the eye and say,

> *No dice. The Kingdom of Heaven is within me because I am the one who
> chooses to be wholly joyous. I let that joy overflow so much that I
> cannot help but give it to the world.*

And if there are those that fear joy, give it anyway. And if they can’t
bear it, rest assured they will drop out of your life.

But it’s only fear that causes that to happen. But no one can flee
*from* Light who does not turn and flee *to* Light. For Light surrounds
them wherever they are on the path they choose to walk. If that is
true—and I assure you that it is—it means that you are safe to release
your hold upon your brothers and your sisters, whatever the form of
relationship­ may have been. You are free to give them to me, and I will
keep them safe and I will whisper to them in their dreams until *they*
make the same choice that *I* made in time: to release the dream of the
dreamer and to acknowledge,

> *I and my Father are one.*

Rest assured that I will leave no one that you entrust to me. Unshackle
from your heart, unshackle from yourself the weight you have carried for
so long. The awakening of another is the Holy Spirit’s responsibility.
Your only function, your only purpose, your only task, if you will, is
to be the presence of one who has allowed correction to come to the mind
so that you are forevermore the Thought of perfect and joyous Love
in form. That is all that is ever asked of you. The rest is being taken
care of. It’s a bit of a release, isn’t it?

*\[Addressing a member of the audience\].* It’s about time you gave that
to me. Thank you.

Wish I’d thought of it sooner.

Beloved friend, whenever you think about that Truth, you have
immediately moved into what is real and eternal, and it no longer
matters if you didn’t think about it earlier because in this moment all
things are made new. It is called rebirth.

That little sigh that you felt released more than you know. Now, be
ready for miracles.

Oh, I am. Bring them on.

Ah, yes. What then are your true dreams? For while you abide for a
little while in time it is given unto you to allow unhappy dreams to be
translated into happy dreams. And you will know the course that the Holy
Spirit will take you on by the things that come into your life without
effort. And you will know the course given to you to walk to bring you
wholly to a dream of joy, as you become willing once again to become as
a little child who celebrates the incredible creativity—the dreams that
seem to course up through the heart.

For a child goes to what you would call a sandbox, and some image comes
of an incredible castle and they are filled with such joy,

> *Ah, this is going to be so much fun.*

They don’t go and ask somebody if it’s okay. They don’t ask somebody,

> *Well, do castles really exist? Is it true that I can build a
> foundation to sustain it?*

They don’t ask for authorization of what you call building codes—they
just build it. And they rejoice in every moment of the game; the game,
the play. Allow yourself from this day forward to truly get in touch
with your heart’s desires. Don’t fear them any longer.

Now, if you think a desire is coming up in the heart that says,

> *Boy, I’ve always wanted to murder that so-and-so...*

\[Laughter\]

I am not asking you to create chaos here. That is not your heart.

A clue.

It is a clue, indeed.

But if you dream of wealth, if you dream of service, if you dream of
travel, if you dream of a new house, if you dream of a new cloak, if it
feels really good and it keeps pressing, not from the mind downward but
from the heart outward, why not let it flow?

The river of life lies within you. It sustains you and it carries you,
and it will bring you home to the Father wholly—but only if you let it
flow. Only if you let it flow. And that river is a river of joy. Indeed,
with great sincerity I say unto you, “Let it rip!”

\[Laughter\]

Indeed. So, how are you all doing?

Great. Yes.

Indeed.

Jeshua?

Just a moment. Stand up. Now, you that just said, “Yes,” I want you to
become the leader here and lead them in at least three resounding
“Yeses.” And don’t let them hesitate or hold back. It must be at the top
of the lungs. Feel it from the toes all the way up to the crown of the
head. Those of you that were lying down have a little further to go but…

YES! More, more. YES! One more. YEEESSS!

Okay.

That was energizing.

Energizing? Why would you want to be energized? Isn’t death and
sluggishness much, much better?

No thanks.

Now, I have indeed watched certain minds begin to awaken to—and I
believe they will enjoy this—their, I believe the word is the “piggy”
nature.

\[Laughter and oinking\]

Now you have all seen what are called the pigs as they roll around, and
the farmer says,

> *My God, there they are rolling around in that mud again.*

A true pig realizes and perceives that they are rolling in the river and
the mud of *joy*.

And what if you were to go to your friends tomorrow and say,

> *I have just gone to a great teacher who gave me the last meditation
> that I need to master,*

and your friend says,

> *What is it?*

and you say,

> *Come, come. Come to my backyard and I’ll show you.*

\[Loud laughter\]

You can roll in the river and the mud of joy whenever you want to
because this world has no power whatsoever over the Holy Son of God; and
that is Truth, indeed.

And all it took was the willingness of one person to say, “Yes,” and to
lead brothers and sisters in joining in that one place where the mind is
one, to say “Yes,” and you felt energy and passion and joy course
through the cells of your beingness. And that means wherever you
are—wherever you are—that power is at the tip of your choice. Who cares
where and when you decide to roll in the river of joy?

The world is a lie. Do not let it dictate to you.

Thank you, that was nicely led.

Many teachers in many ways are beginning to bring back the recognition:
what it’s really all about is living from the heart. And in my language
I would say that to live from your heart is to live the life of the
arisen Christ. These two are one and the same.

Where, then, is the pathway that leads you from this world to the
Kingdom? Look no further than your heart. What has been your secret
desire? What has been your passion and your vision? The journey is what
awakens the mind and joins the heart as one, so that the mind becomes
the servant of the awakened heart.

Therefore, I say again, in closing—for I want you to have some time to
mingle together, and when you do so be willing to share your heart’s
desires with each other. Have some fun with it and do what you call the
“oinking” of your dreams, yes &hellip;

Be, therefore, that which you *are*; and you are the Light that has come
to this world; and you are the one who is the Prince of Peace; or
Princess, if you insist.

In short, lighten up and get on with it.

\[Laughter\]

I love you, but not in seriousness. When you are wholly joyous, rest
assured I am with you. When you are not, rest assured I am with you.
When you doubt yourself, rest assured I do not. And when you rest in
certainty, I celebrate. And if you have ever believed that you have
loved me, then truly choose to acknowledge and love the Son that dwells
within your own heart and let your Light shine. For only by so doing can
you in Truth honor and love me—not as someone above you, but as your
brother and as your eternal playmate.

Peace be unto the wholly joyous and awakened and arisen and resurrected
Christ, who blossoms forth and brings such beauty to this world that
your brothers and sisters, perhaps yet sleeping, won’t be able to help
but recognize that the Light is in them, too. Indeed. And Heaven comes
to Earth because you choose to make the time now.

Have a good time mingling. Come up to somebody, give them a hug and say,

> *You know what I’ve always really wanted to manifest in my life?*

And let them know. What the Son decrees begins to move into
manifestation. What the Son hides is held as a light under a bushel.
Decree and manifest Heaven on Earth. It’s really all you’ve ever wanted
anyway. Why settle for less?

Peace be unto you whom I love from before the foundations of the world.

Peace be unto you whom I walk with and celebrate with, even when you
don’t notice and forget.

Peace be unto you always.

Amen.

