---
title: "Now Is My Purpose Before Me"
fb:
  desc: "Way of Mastery: The Early Years - Now Is My Purpose Before Me"
date: "Jan 1, 1993"
formatted: Sharon
source: Dave Kopsel
---

Now we begin. 

And in Truth, greetings unto you, beloved and holy friends. I come forth always
in joy to abide with you, and indeed as I have said unto you, I am with you
always. Therefore, I come forth in joy from the place within you and within me
that we share eternally. That place cannot be lost to you, as it has never been
lost to me, and in each moment and in each thought and with each breath as you
choose - and I emphasize the word "choose" - to be but the presence of Love,
you are the one through whom the Light that lights all worlds shines forth. 

Does it take a great miracle for you to allow that Light to shine through you?
No, it takes indeed the simplest of miracles, a miracle that has already
occurred in the depth of your being and waits, not for it to occur within you,
but waits on your welcome and your acknowledgement that because you are, the
Love of God is made present. 

You are that one sent forth in my name, even as I was sent forth in yours, for
we share in one Mind and one Heart and one great and eternal Truth, and
throughout all of eternity there is but the union of Father and Son, all that
God is, and God's one creation. 

So, would you join with me then? Let the eyes of the body close. Release the
sense of rigidity from the body and from the mind and especially from the
breath, and in this moment, in just this one moment, allow yourself to set
aside what you have perceived to be the worries and concerns and troubles. In
just this one moment allow yourself to set aside every perception you have ever
held about anyone. In just this moment allow yourself to set aside every
perception you have ever held about what the world is for. And in just this one
moment alone join with me in the quiet place of the heart and set there upon
the altar your belief in the past, your anticipations of the future.

Release the world from your mind. Let the breath flow deeply and freely without
need to constrict or to direct it. Allow it to flow through you gently and
easily and use the power given unto you, not to make but to allow, to allow
yourself to begin to truly join with me ? and if you believe that that must be
hard, realize that that is just a perception. Set it aside. Replace it with a
loving thought that teaches you communion with all that Jeshua is is simple and
natural, for minds that are joined in love cannot be separate one from another. 

Open, then, the shutters of the heart. Touch deeply the place of peace within
you and begin to see and to feel a soft and warm and radiant Light that seems
to have always been there. Touch that Light. Allow yourself to be bathed within
it. Breathe that Light, allowing every obstruction, every obstacle to the
presence of Love to be dissolved from the mind, from the emotions and from the
body itself.

Feel me, then, as I come to abide with you now, for I am not limited. And yet I
am no different than you, for the same unlimitedness is shared by us and the
place of peace is not lost to us. And abiding there without trace of effort,
hear then these words that come not through a mind or a body outside of you,
but hear them as though they come from your own soul, through your own mind and
touch your own lips: "There is nothing outside of me. My radiance knows no
boundary. My purity has not been tainted. My innocence remains forever and I am
embraced in the Love that is the presence of God. My Light has no beginning and
it shall not have an end, and with it I embrace all things and, in embracing
them, I heal them and transcend them.

"I am the one in whom my Father remains eternally well pleased. I am the one
who has come into the world and the world has comprehended me not. I am come to
bring Light and to reveal it to my brothers and to my sisters, for they are not
outside of me, and everyone that I behold in them do I see and know myself.
They are, then, my salvation. And because I give my love to them without
measure, I receive the Love of Christ.

"I am that one. I am that one. I have lived the life of every being, and the
Light that is Christ lives within me. Choosing Light, I light up all darkness.
Choosing Love, I release all fears. And because I am awake in God's Love, the
whole of creation is uplifted in me.

"Gone the perception of the need to suffer. Gone the perception of lack and of
loss. Gone the perception that I have ever been separate from Love. And because
I embrace the world, the world is transformed and now is my purpose before me
and the Truth of my being revealed. I come only as a friend of everyone, and
because I extend my love, they are healed in my presence. And from this moment
on I choose to go out no more from my Father's holy place, and the body becomes
but the means through which I make my love manifest to the world. I live, yet
not I, but Christ Iives in me: one Mind, whole and complete forever. I am the
Peace that must pass all understanding.

"l am the Light that lights all worlds. And because there are no boundaries,
even now without moving a muscle I allow my Light to expand until it touches
every heart in this one small room, for I am asked only to receive those who
are sent unto me. And in receiving them, I know that I am received, and my
Light heals the heaviness on all hearts. And embracing my brothers and sisters,
I remember that we are but one."

Abide, then, in that place of union and leave it not. Be not in a hurry, for
where is there to go beyond this?

"Once we dreamt a dream, and for just one moment we chose to believe we were
separate. But the time of dreaming is ending now, and because I choose to
awaken, my brothers and sisters can awaken within me. For this am I created.
For this alone am I sent forth. For this have I entered the world. For this
have I suffered the world, and for this do I enlighten this world."

{Pause.}

And now, in this moment that is both without beginning and end, understand well
that you hold the power to forgive the world, and if there is anyone or any
event that you have ever known that somehow rests as a chain upon the heart, go
to that event, go to that experience, go into the presence of that one within
your mind and embrace them with that Light and know that you are safe right now
to allow miracles to heal whatever has been in the past. Choose it, then;
choose it well, for the reluctance to forgive has been the only thing that has
ever blocked your awareness of the Truth and kept it from your mind and your
heart. Forgiveness is the great need of this world, and you are the one who can
bestow it.

{Pause.}

And if that feels just a little difficult, remember that you are not alone
because I am with you and I will indeed give you my strength until yours is as
certain as mine. Take it, then. Ask it of me and it is yours.

{Pause.}

Some of you are becoming aware in that quiet place of peace that you are indeed
never alone. For even as I am with you, there are other friends who are
likewise with you. Trust what you feel and what you know ? not with the mind
but with the heart. Forgive, then, the world and you will have forgiven
yourself. And in forgiving yourself the heart begins to open. It begins to
trust in safety, and peace comes to be remembered.  {Pause.}
 
And together we are the Light that lights this world.

{Pause.}

Begin now just to let the breath move a little more deeply in the body, as if
you were just breathing in life itself, just saying "yes" to it. It is never
hidden from you at any moment. It's as though all the Love of God is in a soft,
gentle golden Light, which is pouring into the very cells of your being, and
yet you do nothing but receive what is rightfully yours.

{Pause.}

So, if you would like, simply let the eyes open. However, it is perfectly okay
to leave them closed since it is not with the physical eyes that the essence of
what alone is real can be seen. Learn to see well with the eyes of the heart
and your vision will never be clouded and will never lead you astray.

How are you doing?

*Good.*

Good, I believe it worked.

Rapidly indeed there comes much change and the tapestry that has been woven,
that begins to bring the holy Son of God home again, is nearly completed. I
have said to you many times that the miracle shortens the need for time.
Therefore, in all things look not to time for the measure of how long it will
take for the Atonement to be completed, but rather focus your attention on the
miracle that is occurring within you and the miracle that you can allow to be
extended to your brother and to your sister. Nothing else matters, save the
recognition that each moment given unto you is a moment given so that you can
be the Light that lights and heals this world.

Once you believed that you were something other than what you really are, but
the Truth is getting out. You are miracle-workers. And though you may not have
quite noticed it, but in what you chose to do together for just a few moments
has indeed already loosed miracles upon the whole of mankind. It is not
difficult to bring Light to the world. It requires only the willingness to
deliberately set aside every perception you have ever learned about yourself
that has not come from the place of peace and certainty within your own heart.
For that is where the guidance of the Comforter can be found and can indeed be
heard. And when you set aside those perceptions, you do not so much as recreate
yourself as simply allow what you truly are to be remembered.

And each time that you choose to remember, you, little old you, are indeed the
one that uplifts the whole of creation, the whole of it - every blade of grass,
every wisp of cloud. You, you are the one that heals your neighbor.

The time is drawing to a close for seeking, and what is being born is the time
of remembrance. Remembrance is not so much a doing as it is a grand celebration
of what could never be taken from us. And indeed long have I waited for this
age to be upon this plane, this world of yours. For soon the Son will no longer
suffer torment of the dream of separation. For what is beginning to occur -and
remember, miracles shorten the need for time, so as it occurs in one mind, it
makes it easier for two and then four and soon ? what is occurring is that Mind
with a capital "M," the Mind of Christ, is being remembered in more and more
what appear to be individual minds. And as you allow that process to take place
within you, as you walk through that final little ring of fear and choose to
set aside your perception of yourself as separate from God, when you choose (to
be so outrageous as to acknowledge in your mind that you are not seeking
anything because there is nothing outside of you, then the miracle will touch
your heart and it will illuminate the part of the Mind of Christ given unto
you, and you will indeed be all that I have ever represented to mankind. And
the works that you believe I have done, these things and much more will you do.
Much more. Much more. It will be like comparing one of your Mercedes to a
Model-T, and you will be astounded that so much power could move through you.

What, then, does it take to experience a miracle? Only your willingness that it
be allowed to occur through you and, therefore, for you. And in this evening
the primary reason that I have come forth, done a little blending with this my
beloved and ancient friend to share a few words with you, is to merely ask you,
each and every one of you, even if you don't understand what it means, to
choose in this hour to be a miracle-worker. There is no graduate course you
have to take. You need only be willing to be available.

Where, then, will you be sent to perform your miracles? Look no further than
where you are. Where you are. The Light is in you and it has never been dimmed.
The Light that is in me is the Light that is in. you, and very soon the
recognition is going to begin to settle in to a multitude of minds and it will
multiply and multiply. Illumination will return, and there will be remembered
the grand and simple truth: Christ made manifest in Jeshua ben Joseph. Christ
is but the aspect of my own true Self and there is nothing outside of me.

You have heard it said unto you that this world is a world of shadows. It is
not just metaphor. It happens to be true. And a drama has been well played out
from the moment in which we held as one mind the thought that we could be
separate from God and create unlike Him. And yet, in the beginning of that one
thought already was the seed of healing planted, and there is One That was sent
unto us to water that seed even while we continued to dream dreams of
fragmentation and fear and separation. And the seed began to stir. It began to
grow. It began to sprout just a little bit at a time. And the myths and the
religions and the spiritualities and the visions of Truth began to seep back
into the collective mind of mankind, and as incredible as they seemed, and
exterior to you as they seemed, they came forth from nowhere save within you.
For you have never been born and you will never taste death, and all time
frames that have ever been are contained within you, and they do not limit you.

You were there at the foundations of all worlds, and you will be where you
remain to witness the final dream - a dream of remembrance, a dream of
celebration, a dream of healing indeed, in which the things of fear are
dissolved from the mind of the holy Son of God. And yet, that happy dream waits
on your simple recognition that you are the One - the One with a capital "O" -
that has been sent forth to manifest that dream, to make it visible one unto
another.

Some of you will remember that when we began this work a few years ago, I made
a little comment. And the comment was simply this: that I longed and looked
forward to the day when my brothers and sisters would come not to seek anything
from me but to abide with me and celebrate with me the Truth that the holy Son
of God has awakened. The resurrection has been completed and the happy dream
descends upon this world, transforming it, translating it into Heaven on Earth.

Doesn't that seem incredible that such a thing could take place, that such a
thing could be witnessed? Rest assured that the only thing that is incredible
is that we could have ever believed that we were separate from God. That is
what is incredible. The rest of it is just detail. 

So, you see, always and always again there is but one thing, just one thing,
one little lesson that needs to be learned. And once it is learned, it need
only be remembered until that remembrance is with you with every breath: "There
is nothing outside of me and I remain as my Father created me to be."

As you are willing to set aside the perceptions of struggle, indeed to set
aside the perceptions of loss, you will come to understand that this world has
never taken anything from you. It did not take me from you. Where would I go?
It did not take you from me. Where would you go?

The perceptions born with the body that have led you to believe that you are
separate one from another, that perception has never ever been true. It is an
illusion. And while illusions hold no power, they can seem to have the power to
bind you. How, then, do you loosen it? By making a different choice. By being
willing to allow insanity to come to your mind so that you look upon the world
and say, "Ah ha. What I see through my physical eyes is not the real world. The
real world is a world of safety. The real world is a world of perfect union in
which all minds arc already joined. The real world is one in which I need do
nothing, and yet all things will be done through me. The real world is a world
that can be trusted." The real world, the real world, has awakened within you.

So, that indeed is the secret that is getting out of the bag, and very rapidly
there will be a movement beyond what you call the period of learning, the
period of seeking, the period of struggling, a period of running amuck trying
to find a different teacher because the last one didn't fix you. And instead,
you will go where you are guided, to celebrate in the heart. And you will join
with those growing in numbers who have remembered with you that only Christ
lives, and there will be a celebration upon this plane that will, one day,
involve the whole of humanity. And then, when every voice has been raised with
ours, the world will cease to be. And it will cease to be as effortlessly as it
arose in the beginning as the result of a single thought, a thought shared by
all minds equally. It is like being at a costume party and suddenly everybody
decides to take the mask off and just be the presence of Love. 

What do you think? Would it be a worthwhile party?

*Yes.* 

Will you choose to bring it into manifestation? For, you see, I cannot do it.
Sorry about that. I've never been able to do it. Love waits on your welcome &mdash;
on your welcome &mdash; and yet, it comes not from afar, for it is found to be the
essence of your only reality. Love embraces all things, trusts all things,
rejoices in all things. It looks beyond the appearances of the world that are
but as dancing shadows and it remembers itself in the eyes of everyone, and
indeed, going far, it moves not an inch. And beholding the farthest star, it
touches its own essence. You are that Love and you are that Light, and if you
would well receive it, you have never needed me or anyone to be your teacher.
And the great surprise is: I have never taught you anything, Nothing. Not one
thing have l ever taught you. All I have done is loved you, because that's all
I can do. And I have come in a countless number of forms to reveal to you only
what you are. And because I see it in you, you have revealed it to me. Indeed.

Every moment, every single moment is nothing else but the opportunity for you
to demonstrate that I am awake within you. Every moment is nothing but the
opportunity to demonstrate that I am awake within you. Every moment, every
moment is the place for miracles. And no one can bring them but you. No one.
You can't go to church and pray for them, hoping that they will drop out of the
sky. You cannot possibly pray long enough or hard enough to make a miracle
happen. You cannot climb enough mountains or swim enough oceans. You cannot
possibly purify yourself enough to make a miracle happen. But you can relax
into them.

You can begin each day by saying that "Only miracles occur for me, so I am just
going to watch them today. And because I am a miracle-worker, I have learned
that of myself I do nothing, but the Love that has created me does all things
through me. And if I find myself in this place in this hour at this moment, it
is not by accident, so I might as well relax and enjoy it."

What, then, can you enjoy when it seems to be that the world around you is
falling apart? You can enjoy the Truth. You can enjoy the Truth. You can begin
to see that you've never truly been able to enjoy the world that has been
constructed around you. You can't seem to hold onto it long enough to enjoy it.
Everything changes outside of you. But there is something changeless within
you, and when you make the simple choice to join with me in enjoying that which
is changeless within us, a Light begins to shine that reaches out from you and
penetrates the appearances of the world around you. And that Light reveals to
you what is changeless in all that you see. And what the eyes of the heart
reveal to you and what illuminates your mind and brings it back to wholeness is
that you see naught but the face of Christ everywhere you look.

That is the essence of what you might want to call practice: just choosing to
see the face of Christ wherever you look, remembering that you are safe always
because you've never been the body. You've never been some fragment of a soul,
lost for eons. You have never been a Light that has been judged by the One Who
created you as a great ray of Light. And if you've never been judged, you will
never be condemned. You cannot help, you cannot help but be wholly joyous in
each moment whenever you choose to remember that you are the Light that lights
all worlds.

So what do you think? Is joy worth it?
 
*Yep. Uh huh.*
 
But if you're feeling wholly joyous, how can you just sit there? Have you ever
had that feeling where it felt like you couldn't do anything but just sit? Now,
you have all felt that at least ten thousand times. And yet, did you know that
on just the other side of a new choice there lies waiting for you unbounded and
unbridled joy? And yet you cannot really know that that joy is within you
unless you choose to give it away.

So, that's really very simple. It requires only that you get a little
outrageous. You get a little crazy. You set aside all the perceptions you
believe you must hold. For you've come into this room; there have been rows of
chairs, and you have planted the carcass, the bag of dust, on a chair, and the
world has taught you that you actually have to sit there. Indeed. So, get a
little crazy and just see how quickly you can embrace each other and not leave
anybody out. A big hug, a little kiss on the cheek and a lot of laughter. See
how fast you can do it.

{Group moves about hugging, kissing and laughing.}

Marc: When all of that started, Jeshua asked me to open my eyes and, as I want
to do at times... I rather like that space so I hesitated. So he said, "Marc,
please open your eyes."

So, how are you doing?

*Great. Purr.*
 
All right.

*Could Jeshua talk about 1993?*

He's saying, "Certainly. If you believe it's important."

*It is an important year.*
 
What would you like to ask about it?

*Well, oh dear. It's difficult here. People are whispering "community" to me.
That's obviously a very important event that will be happening in my life in
the coming year and others that wish to be involved in that. I don't know what
else I can say because you've already said it ? that we have to be that
presence of Love and believe in miracles. So what else is there to know? But
anything you can say will be great. Thank you.*

I just want to share, Robin, as you were saying that...what I am experiencing
is that I can still see him very, very clearly and feel him as you were sharing
that, "what else is there to say?" I don't know how he does this any more than
he already is but he lit up with a great smile, with a great smile, and said,
"Ah, finally."

What must be remembered in the process that some of you are undergoing in
regard to what you call community is that it is a reflection of what you are
choosing deep within yourselves to bring into your life and to make manifest,
first for yourselves and then by extension, and because all minds are joined,
to demonstrate that to the world. It reflects to you the culmination, then, of
choices that have been building for much longer than you could imagine, in
which the heart begins then to choose comm-unity - which means communion - and
this always requires a setting aside of the sense of a separate self. One might
view that as a sacrifice, but what has never been true cannot be sacrificed.

Therefore, as you continue in this coming year, you will experience
acceleration of bringing certain energies together that will allow for the
manifestation at a physical level of what you are holding as a vision within
your hearts. I have said to you many times that this process would require a
shaking out period, for what this community will represent then is a purity of
heart, a purity of intent, a purity of understanding that it is not you who are
the makers and doers, but rather you are those who are choosing to allow it to
be done through you.

So the shaking out period, then, has been a period in which certain minds have
been confronted with the places that they have not chosen to heal within
themselves, and it has also brought other minds to the recognition that that
specific demonstration is not necessarily what they are called to do. But the
support for it will be there and it will be growing.

As this comes into a physical manifestation, there will be many others who will
begin, then, to be magnetized by what you are demonstrating and they will come
virtually without your seeking them. This will then be a demonstration unto you
of the simple Truth that is being birthed within you that you are not asked to
do; you are only asked to be. And as you choose then to be but the presence of
Love, the Light within you must necessarily radiate out, touching other minds
who hold a similar vision with you and have chosen at the depth of the heart to
join with you in the creation of this demonstration. Hold that understanding
within you - and I speak of you as the small group of you that are choosing to
take the leap off the cliff without knowing what's around the corner. And that
is a demonstration of what each soul and what each mind must do. It does
require, from the perspective of separation, the willingness to leap into the
unknown, to trust what seems to be unseen and to set aside the fears that have
arisen from what has been seen.

Think well upon that. Trust is always trust in what is unseen and seems to be
unknown. And yet, it is what is unseen and unknown that can alone be trusted,
because it is the presence of God within you and God creating through His only
creation: you.

So, the main thing again is let there be no seriousness in the endeavor, for
that is exactly what the world has taught you. And you are asked to release the
world so that the reversal of thought can be made manifest in you. If the world
has been a place of seriousness, do just the opposite. Do you see? "Do you mean
I have to be happy?"

Now, happiness truly comes when you finally penetrate and touch the place of
knowing within you in which there is revealed that there's never been any
other true possibility.

Now, community then is never about separation because community is not about
fear at all. Think not then that this community shall be a demonstration of
what it means to withdraw from the world, but it will be a demonstration of how
simply innocent hearts and minds can allow miracles to occur through them. And
that is why I once said to you that there would not be room in this community
for qualities of energy in which judgment still remain, for judgment is only
separation and the insistence upon it. And that which can be revealed in this
play - let's call it play and not work - is to be a demonstration of the
reversal of the thought process of the world.

Therefore, it requires singing, laughing, dancing, playing and planting the
seed in the ground with great joy and gratitude for the harvest that has
already come from it. So, are you ready to put all of that into action?

*Absolutely.*
 
Yes. And yet, beloved friend, it was not so many months ago when there was a
great weight of hopelessness upon your heart, is that not true?
 
*Oh, yes. I was seriously wondering whether to give the land up; it was such a
burden.*
 
What does it feel like now?
 
*A wonderful blessing.*
 
What created the difference?
 
*People. Opening the whole thing up. Just allowing. Changes in my life. Many
factors have come along, but it's just generally, I guess I'd paraphrase it as
an opening up inside of me.*
 
There, you finally got to it. Do you see how there's still that little tendency
to say, "Well, it must have been something out here that came and did this
thing for me"? The reversal of the thought processes of the world reveals to
you that nothing happens out here save that which is the reflection of the
choice being made in the heart. So there, you've gotten to it.

In other words, precious friend, the weight of the hopelessness reached a point
where you were not willing to tolerate it any longer. And though you don't
remember the exact moment, from the depth of the soul you simply set forth that
one thought, "I choose to see things differently." And with that, what I have
called the Comforter, the one Teacher Whose guidance never errs, began to come
to you long before you ever met anyone in this room, and began to set the stage
for attracting you in the directions that would serve in the process of the
healing and awakening necessary so that you could see revealed in your own
perception the translation of a burden into a blessing.

That which is called the Holy Spirit is your servant and not your master, and
the miracle cannot come until you ask for it. Because you have asked, the
miracles have come. And if they are coming now at a certain rate, imagine then
as you receive them and feel gratitude for them how much more acceleration you
will experience. So, something opened up inside of you. And rest assured every
mind in this room is thankful that it did, because as your voice is raised,
beloved brother, so, too, is the voice of everyone. Remember then, always, that
the greatest of gifts that you can ever give to anyone is to allow your voice
to be raised in Light until it becomes only Light. And enjoy the process.

Does that make sense to you?

*Thank you. Yes, it does.*
 
*Jeshua, I have a question. Jeshua, you mentioned that it is a time of
purification, and a lot of old patterns and things are going to be coming up.* 

Going to be?
 
They are. Can you offer any suggestions on how to process and deal with these
"negative aspects" of our self that are not, so that...ways to have better in
sight for healing? For they seem very powerful and overwhelming a lot, and I
lose sight of who l am in the midst of all of it and continue living in this
reality. It's been a real challenge and I need some insight.
 
If I say to you that you must find a way to deal with the negative aspects of
yourself, I would be a liar and I would be the worst thing that could possibly
happen to you.
 
Remember, beloved friend, there is no such thing as a negative aspect within
you. And so, you see, that in the way you phrased the question you have
revealed to yourself the crux of why these events, these emotions, seem to be
overwhelming ? because you have chosen, unwittingly, to identify yourself with
them.
 
Now, that sounds like a great metaphysical idea. It is, by the way, true. How,
then, do you deal with it? What you are seeking to learn is how to be the
presence of Love no matter what the circumstances are. In Truth, that cannot be
learned tomorrow, and it is not the fruit of tolerating what is perceived as
overwhelming situations. For tolerating such things may bring you to the end of
their apparent manifestation, but rest assured they will return in another
form. I don't think you want that.

What is required, then, is to understand fully that only Light can get rid of
darkness. Only Light. Analyzing the darkness, fearing the darkness, struggling
with the darkness, tolerating it, will never get rid of it. That is what the
part of the mind called the ego seeks to do so that it can cleverly find a
closet to put it in. It closes the door and says, "Ah, good, now I can get on
with my life." But that is not what you are about. You have chosen to begin to
allow a manifestation of certain things that have not been healed before. And
what has been healed? Not the situation, for they are never quite the same. But
what has not been healed is the way in which you have chosen to perceive these
things, and therefore the feeling of being overwhelmed merely mirrors back to
you an old pattern. You've felt overwhelmed before.

Beloved friend, what you are seeking to learn is how in each moment when the
perception of intensity is there, to realize that right there, right in that
moment, is where you need to make a new choice. Right in that moment use the
power of choice given unto you ? because it's all that's ever been given unto
you ? to turn the mind from what it perceives as intensity and ask only this
question, "Where and to whom can I now extend Love?"

Turn the mind in that moment even when it feels like the ship is sinking and
ask that question within yourself, "Where and to whom can I now extend Love?"
Now, what will happen is that an image of someone or a name is going to pop up
in your mind and with your permission, because I am your friend, I will assist
with that. Do not hesitate even if it means seeming totally insane so that you
are leaving that set of circumstances or putting off what it seems to be
forcing you to address. Put the whole of your attention on the one who's just
come into your mind. If you can reach them on the telephone, do so. If you can
go and visit them, do so. If those things aren't available, hold them in your
mind until nothing else is there and do nothing but extend love to them.

Does that seem overwhelming?

*No.*
 
I know it seems almost a little simple - but the Truth is simple. Precious
friend what is coming up for you now comes only because you've been willing to
open a little trapdoor and let some shadows fly up. Remember that this world
will never give you your happiness or your peace, and all that you have ever
experienced and all that you see around you represents to you some quality of
energy that you have believed must be in your life. Eventually, you see, when
the mind is wholly corrected, there will be nothing but Light, a Light that
outshines even the need for the body.

Now, if that is true ? and I assure you that it is ? it means that right now
you are being blessed. Nobody ever said that blessings come with little roses
on the packages. You are being blessed with the opportunity to make a
fundamental difference in how you choose to perceive what is unfolding. The
overwhelmingness comes over the old pattern of slipping into identification
with it, because you have perceived in the past that if you followed the
dictate of Love, it would mean loss and sacrifice.

You are not alone, and what you are undergoing right now is a very, very, very
important stage in your own process of awakening. Very important. Know you that
which is called initiation? Have you heard of that? Don't minimize what's
coming up for you now. It is very much a process of initiation, is one way to
look at it. Time to be a bit of a warrior, yes.

Beloved friend, you are not alone. There are going to yet be moments when it
seems overwhelming. Remember that you are not alone, and if you are willing,
give me all that seems overwhelming. Just give it to me. Don't take a rain
check. Just give it to me and then focus on the question that I have given to
you. The world is an illusion, and there is nothing that can be lost when you
make the choice for love that will not be replaced a hundredfold with that
which brings you lightness and joy and peace. And if that means that the whole
of the world around has to be completely reconstructed, it will be, and what it
reveals to you will lead you to marvel that you could have ever felt
overwhelmed. And you are that close.

Willing to give it a try?

*Uh huh. Thank you very much.*
 
Precious friend, thank you. The soul comes to the threshold of the Kingdom a
million times in its journeys. And why? Because the threshold is always right
there. You have chosen not to let the opportunity slip by, and you have asked
from the depth of your being &mdash; we both know this is true &mdash; you have cried out
in your prayers for final healing and to awaken that your gifts may truly be
given to the world. Is that not true?
 
*Uh huh.*
 
Indeed. And so it shall be: because you have asked, you receive. Trust,
precious friend, for you are not alone. And even now in this one moment you are
not alone because your brothers and sisters are wholly with you in this.
Indeed.

{Weeping.}

Don't block it. And all of you, beam all the Love and all the support and all
the gratitude you can. Give thanks unto this, your precious friend, because she
really has chosen to awaken and to let the past be gone.

{Pause.}

Block not the tears. Take your awareness within yourself for just a moment.
Feel what is being sent to you and receive it. You are whole and you are loved.

{Pause.}

Do you feel a gentle warmth as though it were descending upon you?

*Yes.*
 
Do you notice how that warmth, at least a part of it, seems to be what you
would know as touching you along the upper part of the back? Do you feel that?
 
*Yes.*
 
Why then would you ever think that I am not with you? I am not over here where
this carcass sits in a chair. l am with you and I won't go anywhere until this
is completed.
 
Beloved friend, haven't you been crying out to rejoin with me?
 
*Yes.*
 
How could you possibly hear about one simple little book? How could you
possibly find yourself in the right place at the right time meet an old brother
through whom the work was given? And it has all brought you to this moment
because you've asked.

My God, prayer works.

{Laughter.}

*Thank God.*
 
Exactly.

Some day, beloved friend, you are going to laugh as you've never laughed. Yes,
and I believe you have a little song or something in your world, "The Whole
World Will Laugh With You."

There, much better. Did you feel that? You just let me come in a little deeper.
Don't block it. There. There. Yes.

{Sobbing.}

Marc: I'm just the telephone here. I'm here, but there's somebody right there.
This is kind of fun. He wants me to let you know he's staying there. At least
he knows how to do two things at once. {Laughter.} It's wild.

*Could you answer my question? Do l ask you or Jeshua? It's confusing. When I
had my private session with Jeshua a couple of weeks ago, I talked to him?well,
anyway, first of all, a lot of incredible things have been happening to some of
us since this window of Light has been opened. When I had my private session
with Jeshua a couple of weeks ago, I talked to him about one of my guides. This
is one of my guides. He said to call him Mark, and l asked him, who was he? He
seemed to be more than just a mere guide and teacher to me, and l feel such
love for him, and he said I have to find out on my own. Well, I did and I found
out who he is by listening to the heart and not to the mind, and the same thing
has happened to four other people just during this past week. They have
connected with their soulmates or twin flames, and two of them are sitting on
either side of me. Could Jeshua speak about this?*
 
Marc: He is just standing there very quietly. He is asking me to ask you what
needs to be said?
 
*Why this is happening? I don't know. It's happened to five of us. I don't know.
Is this something that's happened to a lot of people?*
 
Marc: He wants you to consider very carefully that because it is happening to
you itis, therefore, happening to everyone, and that as you followed
instruction and trusted your own knowingness in your heart, likewise you know
truly even now that you do not need to question what is occurring because you
know what is occurring. It is called miracles.
 
*It sure is.*
 
Miracles do not need to be understood. They need only be celebrated. Beloved
friend, you have relinquished the weight of a thousand worlds in the span of a
few short weeks.
 
*That's for sure. It is wonderful.* 

And it will continue to grow in its wonder as you remember at all times that
you can trust your ability within your own heart to access all that you need in
any given moment. In other words, the question that has arisen within you
concerning this is but the faint and dying echo of an old pattern that has
tried to teach you that you could not trust your own knowingness, and yet, the
miracles both within you and around you have again begun to restore to you the
fact that your heart can be trusted and there is where you find the doorway
that leads to life. That's why you have been feeling so good - because life is
coming back.
 
*Love is coming back to me.*
 
Indeed. Those are one and the same. And do you see then what I have sought to
share with you must be true: because you have allowed the miracle to happen
within you, it makes it easier for those on the right and left to let it happen
to them as well, and as they let it happen to them, it becomes easier for you
to receive yet another miracle, and the dance and the celebration of true
friends goes on eternally.

Remember, then, that miracles need not be questioned. They need only be
celebrated. And the celebration is the watering of the soil from which will
spring miracles tenfold. So, the three of you need only dance together. Say
"Yahoo" as often as you can.

Beloved friend, when you walked into this room this evening, there were several
here who have known you for some time that took a second look because they
felt, they recognized, not so much with the physical eyes but with the eyes of
the heart, that something quite profound has shifted.

*It sure has.*
 
Is that not true of several of you? Do you see, then, you've given everyone the
gift of your own willingness to release an insane perception and remember that
the Truth is in you now. You have allowed that Truth to set you free. And
because they see the radiance that begins to shine through you, they remember
their own. You have given the greatest of gifts imaginable, and it's just
getting started. We will have to call you the cosmic Santa.

{Laughter.}

*I am the first one that this has happened to and then just a few days later
Penne and then the other three.*
 
How about that. And then the other six and the other six thousand and then the
other sixty million, and Light is remembered and Heaven comes to Earth. Indeed.
 
*Thank you.*
 
*Jeshua, I seem to see in this process all of our minds being as one, and our
abilities available to whoever needed them, whether they were twenty miles away
or here, and the soulmates here and above working in conjunction, helping.*
 
Yes.
 
Marc: He is saying, that's all he can really say to that. That, of course, the
answer is yes.
 
*Is that a community or a family? Isn't it?*
 
Of course. The Son is one. One Mind and one Heart. And that family includes
everyone, but the steps to that recognition are through the remembering of
those that have been made special in the process of their experience over the
whole of time and so you begin by gathering first a few old friends that were
once singled out of the whole within the drama. Do you see?
 
But by recognizing your safety and your love with them, the strength is reborn
within you. Spread your wings a little further and wrap them around ultimately
the whole of creation. You have indeed begun to have vision, remembrance, that
all minds are joined as one. And that must mean that Christ is in you now. And
it is that that the world once tried to teach you to forget.
 
*I saw healers of every sort. And whether it was healing by talking to someone,
whether it was healing by vibration, they had the ability to reach each other
through their minds to help that person if they didn't know that. It was just
all there &mdash; just coming from each of us to each of us when it was needed.*
 
Now, in reality that is what is occurring at all times. The whole process of
awakening is only a process of remembering what has been eternally true. So the
vision speaks both of what is and what will be demonstrated in the field of
time. Because time was created basically in error as a measurement of
separation, so, too, is time being translated into the means whereby the one
Mind, the holy Son of God, sees reflected in the things of time the Truth about
Himself. There will come a time when all gifts will be shared equally by
everyone, and that indeed will mark the end of specialness and the remembrance
of union.
 
Your vision, then, beloved friend, shows you what is true eternally and reveals
to you what comes to pass. Do you see?
 
Yes.
 
Yes, you do see. I said it wouldn't be very long until I came to you and you
would feel me again.
 
Yes.
 
You just have to be on guard because you never know where.
 
*Can I ask another question to go with this? Is there a responsibility in this?
I get a feeling that it's sort of a work being done. It's not sort of a... it
is a gift; it is a miracle, but it's a part of the work of uplifting the
consciousness by the Love and the joy and the openings that we grow into.*
 
Is there responsibility in being awake? Yes. The responsibility has a tendency
in the beginning of the process to seem staggering or overwhelming because it
is not quite perceived clearly. The extent of your responsibility knows no
boundaries. The extent of your responsibility necessarily embraces every
brother and every sister, every blade of grass and the farthest stars and yet,
because all minds are joined and there is nothing outside of you, the way to
the meeting of that responsibility is to be at peace, to be the presence of
Love right where you seem to be. When that one thing is accomplished, the
responsibility of ascension has been embraced and realized.

It does not mean - responsibility - it does not mean you must become very
active; you must run about and do everything that everybody else seems to be
doing. Each have their part to play. And if you would know your Father's will
for you, ask, "Where am I now? And who is before me? What thought is coming to
be born in my mind, pressing up from the heart? Who needs a gentle phone call
and a reminder of love? Who needs my touch upon them?" And that is enough,
because all minds are joined.

Is there responsibility? Oh, yes. Is it overwhelming? No, because all power
under Heaven and Earth has been given to the holy Son of God. And each time you
rest in peace, quietly remember that Love is your only reality. You have
reached out and you have caressed and embraced the whole of creation, and to
love the one that is right in front of you at that one moment with the Love of
Christ is to love all equally. Thank God that's all that's asked.

Does that help you?

*Yes. Thank you very much.*
 
Now, it does mean that you never get to punch off the time clock and there's no
union.
 
*Jeshua, I'd like to ask a question about the concept of grace.*
 
Ah, if you pay enough, you can get it. Interesting word that the Church had for
those things: indulgences. What do you what to know about grace?
 
*Well, my understanding of grace is rather sketchy. It's sort of connected to
some old church teachings and so forth, but the thing I think that I'd like to
find out more about is the idea that it is gifted to us. It is given freely to
us without&hellip; in spite of our grasping for it. It's along the same lines as the
allowing, kind of opening up and allowing the Light to come in.*
 
Sounds like a very good description.
 
I'd like to personally know about grace in my life. How's that?
 
Are you sure?
 
*Well, yeah. I'm working on allowing. It's kind of an oxymoron.*
 
Allowing is indeed the key that opens the floodgate of grace. And yet, allowing
is not a doing in the normal sense. It is mastered when every attempt to make
or do or create what you perceive will be your highest good has utterly failed
you and you begin to set aside the perception of the doer and the maker. The
key of allowing is the key that unlocks Heaven, and yet you do not place the
key within the lock. It is placed there for you by none other than God.
 
Allowing, then, is the process in which you relinquish the key back to the One
Who has given it to you, with the understanding that you have never understood
how to use it or what it's for. When you give the key back, you become empty
and still and you are willing to accept all things just as they are even if it
means they will never change. You give up the illusion that there is anywhere
to go, and even if there were, you know that you don't know how to get there.
And then you look gently upon yourself and you extend forgiveness, forgiveness,
beloved friend.

You relinquish the attempt called effort. You give up the concept of working on
it. That is what forgiveness in this sense means. And in your own way, you
allow the Father to know that you are simply empty and, if it is His will, you
will remain empty for all of eternity because it no longer matters.

Some have called that the dark night of the soul, and it will be if you choose
to view that from a fearful perspective. But if you just allow yourself to do
it and say, "What the heck. Nothing else has worked. So I'Il just give it up
and give the heart back to God." He will take the key from you, place it in the
lock and turn the key. And the door opens of its own accord because that's what
it's made for. And then Light indeed comes to fill the place that has been
emptied of every trace of the perception and belief that you must make or do or
accomplish your salvation.

Willing to stop trying? Are you willing to stop trying?

*Oh, absolutely. Absolutely.*
 
Good. Then do simply this one thing: tonight when you rest your head upon your
pillow, do what I have just described to you. Not in the hopes that it is going
to work, but do it because you truly understand that there is nothing else that
can be done. Nothing. And then just go off to sleep. And I give you this
promise: certain miracles will begin to appear, certain shifts will begin to be
felt within you. Trust them. What you are asking for is not far from you.
 
However, there is one condition. You'll need to receive it. Fair trade?

*Fair trade. Thank you.*
 
Beloved friend, you have no idea right now what you have just let loose. You
have no idea truly of what you have just in this moment released from your
countenance. But you will.
  
*Thank you.*
 
Don't thank me. Of my self I do nothing. Indeed. So.
 
*Jeshua, my beloved brother, Cliff, asked me to ask you a question for him. And
what he asked was, how he can best serve in his life in the future?*
 
Marc: He is asking me just to say to you, Howard, that when you talk to Cliff,
let him know that because he has asked, not from the curiosity of the mind but
from the purity of the heart, that the past is released from him and that he
need do only this simple thing: if in each day he will simply turn inside and
ask of Jeshua what he would have him do that day, he will begin to establish
quite rapidly the ability to communicate with him. And that process will be
strengthened so that in the day that he is what he would be perceiving as being
released, it will very much so be a release. The bond between Cliff and Jeshua
has been made and has been strengthened because of his willingness to ask the
question. It does not come from the mind. It comes from the heart. And because
it is asked from there, it is already answered and he will hear that answer
each time he turns within and merely thinks upon Jeshua and asks.
 
*Thank you.*
 
*Jeshua, I had several things happen to me this last week, just within a few
days, and it must be this window. A piece of artwork was given to me and I felt
an aura off of it...messages. And then I got a letter from some friends who had
moved out of the area. They had a child that had the same birth condition as
me, the spina bifida, and the child died suddenly in surgery and there was no
medical reason for the death that any autopsy could find. And I cried about it.
And then I went into the bathroom; I was getting up looking into my little
shelf on my back and I had this strange premonition that I shed my body. I'm
just trying to understand. I've been to see the orthopedist in the middle of
December and he said that all three parts of my muscle are working and he feels
it's coming back. This miracle was occurring within me, with all sorts of
things going on from the Reiki and my perceptions. Can you help me understand
what is happening with this little girl dying with no medical cause and my
sorrow over that and my feeling I shed my body?*
 
Beloved friend, there are a few things going on for you here. First, remember
always that in reality death does not exist. That one that you would perceive
as a child bas not died and has not gone anywhere. The experience you had
following this recognition or this news, what you have called the shedding of
the body, was an experience in which, for a moment, you kind of slid through
the door and released the perception you have held about yourself as being only
the body. Much more than just having the concept or the thought, you
experienced it.
  
*It wasn't just a thought.*

No. Now, the former then, the event of what you would perceive as this death,
triggered and helped you move into that place. Why? Because when you learned
the news, it struck a place of compassion within you. It also struck a place of
a sense of kinship and familiarity with the child.
 
*She was beautiful.*
 
Yes. And you, as what you would perceive as a soul, longed to be able to convey
your love to that child. Now, the death then served in helping you realize that
the only way to do that was to surrender your perception of yourself as being
the body, and you did indeed, in that little moment, communicate your love to
that one, that mind. For just a moment. And that's, after all, all it takes.
You joined with that one in that place that is eternally real, beyond the
appearance of separation that is revealed to you through the physical eyes,
through the physical senses.  Now, it didn't necessarily last very long,
because you noticed that something felt different. Do you see? And so the
perception began to come back. But that's okay because once you've slid through
such a door, it becomes easier and easier, and that in itself will accelerate
the healing of the body. Do you see how it all ties together?
 
*Yes. It's part of the miracle process in healing my body.*
 
Yes.
 
*I perceived myself as a soul that doesn't really live within my body.*
 
Not just a perception, an experience.
 
*Yeah, that's what it was. It wasn't a thought. I was like I shed it.*
 
Just like you can have a thought about what it means to stand in a downpour or
you can stand in it.
 
*Right. Okay.*
 
Now, remember, hold that child in your heart. Think about her. And when you
think about her, allow that feeling to come back to you the feeling in the
heart of compassion and of the desire to extend and communicate love. It will
be very helpful.
 
*Thank you.*
 
But it's only helpful if you want miracles to continue.
 
*I do. Thank you.*
 
Good choice.

*I sent her parents a card, but I don't know if they will be ready for me to
share that.*
 
No, they are not ready yet.
 
*I didn't think so. Thank you.*
 
Marc: Well, how's everybody doing?
 
*Great.*
 
Good.
 
*Great but tired.*
 
Great but tired, huh.
 
*I have another question.*
 
Marc: He's suggesting that we&hellip; let's spend some time together here. Just move
your chairs so that you can sit facing somebody. Any body will do. 

{Group breaks into dyads.}
 
Marc: Does everybody have somebody? It might be nice if we have a couple of
triads to make it a duo. Better be careful over there. A lot of miracles seem
to happen with those.
 
*That's why I moved.*
 
Marc: So just let yourself take a few good deep breaths, and really allow
yourself to look into the eyes of the person in front of you. 

Let the shoulders relax. It doesn't take effort. And as you look into the eyes
of your partner, truly allow every thought of the past to be gone. Let yourself
feel as though there is absolutely nowhere to go. There isn't anything to
achieve. There are no burdens. And begin to allow a feeling of penetration to
occur through the eyes as if there is only Light, just Light, radiant, shining.
 
{Pause.}
 
And if things seem to begin to change a little, just allow it as if there were
no perception or image of this being in front of you that you had to hold on
to.
 
{Pause.}

And then gently within yourself simply begin to repeat: "I see only
myself. I see only Christ." And as that continues, just allow all the Light and
the Love you know that Christ has to radiate through your eyes and to be given
to the one before you.
 
{Pause.}
 
"I see only myself. I see only Christ."
 
{Pause.}
 
Feel that Light just expanding, growing, radiating. Feel the sense of joy it
begins to bring.
 
{Pause.}
 
And remaining in that very special and sacred place, take just a few moments to
use the gift of your words to say to the one in front of you, "Thank you for
all that you are." Whatever feels appropriate for you, just express it from the
depth of your being.

{Group shares with each other.

Don't resist hugs if it feels like a good idea.

Okay. So let's close things up tonight. Let's move the chairs aside.

{The group made a close-knit circle, hugging each other, singing along with
music from a tape by John Astin.} 

