---
title: "The End of Seeking is Upon Us"
received: "Jan 27, 1993"
---

Now we begin. 

Greetings unto you, beloved and holy Children of Light divine. In Truth it is a
great joy, great joy, that I come forth to abide with you in this rather odd
way — even as you have chosen to come forth and to abide with me and to set
aside the whole of the world, to set aside the whole of your affairs to journey
for just this short time to be with one another and to abide with me. 

Therefore, it is with great joy that I come forth to abide with you, for I
cannot come unto anyone save those that would choose to open the door of the
heart for just a little bit and give me access unto it. I come with great joy
because I love you and I have always loved you, and I have looked upon you and
I have seen naught but the great ray of Light that you are created to be that
outshines the body, that outshines this world and yet, for a time, has believed
that it could be limited by the world. Nothing could be further from the Truth. 

You have always remained as you were created to be. You have always remained as
our Father has created us to be and, therefore, I come forth from that place
that is at perfect peace and of perfect Light and perfect Love, that place that
we share eternally, because the holy Son of God, the holy offspring of Light
divine, is but the presence of Love. And if I am but that — and I assure you
that I am — so, too, are you and no journey through space and time can ever
separate you from the essence of the Truth that sets you free. And it is a
Truth given unto you that can set you free now, in this moment, and at any
moment. And there can never be, never be, a set of circumstances that can
separate you from the Truth because that Truth is who you are. It does indeed
outshine the body. It does indeed outshine every experience you've ever known.
It does indeed abide fully within you now, here in this moment. 

And if you would well receive it, you need only learn this simple process of
looking not with physical eyes but with the eyes given unto you of God — and
those eyes rest in your heart. And by looking with those eyes upon all that you
see, you will come to embrace all things, to trust all things, to allow all
things, to love all things and to outshine the limitations that they seem to be
expressing, until indeed this world is returned to its rightful place as the
creation of the offspring of God. 

Many of you have heard it said that you have come to learn certain lessons; you
have experienced what is called karma. And yet, I say this unto you: there is
ultimately but one lesson that needs to be learned and it is simply this: there
is nothing outside of you, and the Kingdom of Heaven dwells in its fullness and
its glory and its perfection and its radiance right where you are. And when you
have learned that lesson, the heart opens and it begins to feel safe — safe
because it knows it abides in a world that can- not tarnish it and cannot limit
it — and in that safety, the Love that you are, the Love that I am, the Love
that created us to be as one, begins to radiate out, embracing the whole of
creation that has been viewed as separate from one's self, and it begins to
bring it home again. 

Therefore, understand well, that you will learn many, many lessons until you
decide that there is only one worth learning: “There is nothing outside of me.”
My precious brother, my precious sister, do not exist outside in my heart, in
my mind. They come forth from within me, and I embrace them now in this most
seemingly ordinary of moments. And because I embrace them without judgment,
without fear, and by looking beyond the body, by looking beyond the
personality, by looking beyond what is called the history — and even the
history of the soul — I behold the great and radiant ray of Light that shines
eternally in the Mind of God. And God is but Love. And because I see that ray
of Light in my brother and sister, I have given unto them the greatest of
gifts, the greatest of gifts: the gift of the opportunity to release, to
relinquish identification, the shame and the guilt and the failure, limitation,
the fear, and to choose anew with me to embrace the divine right that is the
essence of all that alone is real. And nothing real can ever be threatened. And
if you would well receive it, nothing unreal exists. 

A rather interesting statement. "What do you mean, it's not real?" I mean
exactly that. “Nothing unreal exists and nothing real can be threatened.” You
are God's only creation, His only creation — Her only creation, if you will.
God doesn't matter how you address Him, Her. You are His only creation. If God
created only that which is made in His, Her image, and God is eternal and
changeless, there's never been a time that Love has not existed and there will
never be a time that Love will cease to be. And you are that reality. 

When I came forth as a man upon this plane some two thousand years ago, I came
— and I hope you are listening very, very carefully to this — I came for
exactly the same reason that you have come into this very life: not to suffer
the world, not to identify with its insanity, its limitations, but indeed to
bring forth the fullness of Christ and live it. To choose to become so
outrageous that you dare your own mind to say, "I and my Father are One, so
what's the big deal?" And to live it no matter what. To demonstrate first to
yourself and, therefore, to the world that there are no sets of circumstances
that can separate you from your choice to be at peace, and to allow the
extension of Love through every cell of this glorious temple given unto you by
the precious and Holy Earth, your Mother — for the body is but a means of
communication. 

It is really much like what you would call or know as a grand crystal. It
receives frequencies and it sends them out. And the thing that determines what
frequency will pour forth through the cells of the body, what frequencies will
shine forth through the eyes, is what you call the mind. It's like a little
dial. And because you are made in the image of God, that which is given unto
you eternally is the power to choose, and that power is never in any way, shape
or form taken from you. It is never taken from you. And through the thoughts
you choose to hold, you decide what frequency you are going to turn the dial
to. And that frequency begins to express itself in what you have been taught to
call reality. It's not reality at all. You call it a dream. You call it&hellip; I
believe you might call it a hologram. What is outside of you — which includes
the body — is not what is real and yet, there is nothing outside of you. 

It arises within the field of the one and holy Mind of Christ, the Mind that
you share as the essence of your Truth and your reality. Look, then, not to
discover Love, but seek only to become aware of the ways in which you have
created obstacles within the mind to the gentle presence of the Love that is
within you eternally. 

Awakening comes not through striving but through allowing. Not through reaching
but in relinquishing. Not through judgment but through forgiveness. Not through
seeking but through being. And right now in this moment there is no distance
whatsoever, no distance whatsoever, between you and the fullness of the Mind of
Christ — because it is you. 

Look well, then, in just this one moment. What thoughts are in the mind? If it
arises, "Well, this must be nonsense. After all, I've been struggling, I've
been meditating. I've been praying. I've never quite gotten it. How then could
that mind be the essence of my reality? It's like using my hand and trying to
grasp my hand. I keep grasping but I don't quite get it." That thought, that
thought, comes to the mind only because you have chosen to allow it. You turn
the dial to the station or to the frequency marked "self-doubt". Do you know
that one? 

That is how close the Kingdom truly is. To begin to notice that it is, indeed,
mind that has created ten thousand worlds, ten thousand solar systems, a
multitude of levels. It has created time itself and all that arises in time.
And that mind is in each of us equally, and the power to choose what thought,
what vision will be allowed by mind to be manifest in the body and therefore
extended outwardly, that power is with you now as it is with me. The only
difference that could be perceived, in the field of space and time, is that as
a man I chose to accept the Atonement for myself and learned to hold that
thought consistently, whereas some of you forget now and then. Sometimes I know
it feels like you are forgetting for a long "then". 

But what occurs in that moment when you seem to have forgotten that sense of
unity? It is merely because at the level of mind you have identified yourself
with an illusion. You have identified yourself with a frequency of thought that
would create the illusion that you are the body, that you are therefore subject
to space and time, that there are others outside of you who you cannot trust or
embrace and Love, that the world is reality and its perceptions must dictate to
you. For the vision you hold for yourself and the world — this interesting
little hologram of limited and often wholly insane thoughts, taken to be quite
real and quite sane — has been set up by you only for but one reason: to see if
you'll buy into it. To see if you'll buy into it. It is called "The fall from
grace”. 

It did not occur just at some point when time began. It occurs in each moment
when the power of the Mind of Christ, given freely unto you and held within you
eternally by God in yourself, is used in that freedom to tune to the frequency
of separation. That means that with each breath you breathe, you are
re-enacting that moment that seems to have taken place so long ago, and the
holy Son of God — to use my terms; feel free to translate it as you need to —
when the holy Son of God entertained a thought and forgot to laugh. 

Think about it. When does the world feel most real to you? Is it not when there
is a heaviness upon you? When you seem to be struggling with things? Isn't
that, that sense that tells you that the experience is real? And at times when
there's been an ecstatic lightness and a gentleness, a sense of miraculous
freedom&hellip; 

ln those time of gentleness when the flow is so effortless, has not the thought
arisen, "Oh, it's just so incredible, it is unreal"? 

The Truth of the Kingdom is diametrically opposed to the truths of the world.
What the world calls reality is unreality, and what the world calls unreality
is quite real. And if you were to sit in one of your coffee shops tomorrow
morning, cross your legs and shout out at the top of your lungs, "I and my
Father are One. Isn't it grand?” the eyebrows would rise. Some might move away
from you. And if you were to follow that Truth with uproarious laughter, in
which you looked at all the arisings and passings away of just this day and
remember to laugh — not at anybody, but laughing because none of it can touch
or taint or harm or limit the holy Child of God — they will probably move even
further away. 

And yet, in your laughter, and yet in your acknowledgment, you have chosen to
use the power of the Mind of Christ to remember the Truth. And each time you do
that, the Truth has set you free. And when you remember consistently, the
shadows born of separation, dissolve in the depths of the Mind and the light of
union with Love outshines all things. And even sitting in a coffee shop, you
can smile and participate in the passing drama of raising the cup to the lips
of "the body", which you have now learned is not who you really are and sip
your coffee, and the holy Child of God puts the cup down, leaves a tip on the
table and walks out. And those that have moved away from you have only done so
in body because only in this dimension can there be the perception of
separation. 

You have embraced everyone there. You've embraced them with the Love that has
enlightened the mind and the heart because you've chosen to use your power to
remember the Truth, and to remember that no set of circumstances can ever take
that from you. 

When I walked upon this earth, when I walked with many of you — and in a far
deeper sense, you could say when I walked with all of you, I made a simple
choice. You have heard many, many stories about me. Some quite accurate. Some
extremely creative and imaginative. Some have even dared to say that I was born
enlightened. If I was born perfectly enlightened, that would make me a freak in
the world and who would need to listen to me? But if I did not experience the
pain of rejection, the darkness of self-doubt, the struggle of “Armageddon”
that occurs within the mind, then nothing I ever did and nothing I have ever
said has ever meant anything because who could identify with it? 

Well, indeed I have known persecution and I have known rejection. Try being
born through a woman and the story's already gotten out that it wasn't through
the usual means. You think you've stood out in a crowd. And indeed, I had
teachers who came to me when I was very young and said I had a mission to be
prepared for, and rest assured I said, "Who, me? It cannot be me. Don't ask me
to rise above my brothers and sisters. It's too frightening." 

Do you know that feeling? Has it not touched each and every one of you? "Do not
ask me to rise above the crowd. Do not ask me to think differently than the
world appears to want me to think. I'll just find a way to fit right in." 

How many times have you gone to sleep at night and felt a weight of something
you couldn't quite see, or couldn't quite touch, upon your heart and upon your
mind? A sense of restlessness, a sense of frustration, a sense of not quite
being alive yet? "Something's around the corner but I haven't found it yet." Do
you know that feeling? 

It doesn't seem to be too rare in this plane. Can you understand in this moment
that the feelings you have had were not unknown to me? And that is why I am
indeed your friend and your brother. And in ancient days to call someone a
friend was not taken lightly — though it was filled with Light. It meant&hellip; to
call one a friend meant that you were choosing to look upon that soul and no
matter what, no matter the circumstances, you would see only the Light of
Christ in them and you would hold them in the highest Light possible, even when
they didn't have the strength to hold themselves there, and you would not place
a single judgment, not a single judgment upon them for anything at any time. 

Indeed, understand well, I come as your friend, and the world has never been
able to get me to see anything less than the fullness of Love in you. And I
have watched you as you have dreamt a million dreams. I have watched you as you
have created dramas of pain and suffering and lack and limitation. I have
watched you as you have striven to heal the world without receiving healing for
yourself. I've watched you as you've striven to give but not to receive. I have
watched you in your anguish and I have visited you in your sleep. And if you
would well receive it: I have visited some of you on street corners for, you
see, space and time are no big deal. And indeed, it is possible to manifest the
appearance of a physical form and have a chat. And there have been times— and
there are a few of you here, that if you just would have turned around after
you walked away, you would have wondered where that person went. 

I have never, in a sense, left this world. I have, however, transcended this
world. Space and time are not a limitation to me. What I want to share with you
— and if you leave here with only this one thought, it will serve you well and
miracles will flow from it — if space and time are not a limitation for me,
rest assured, that right now, they are not a limitation for you, because what
is given unto the holy Son of God is given equally and without measure. And
though you seem to be hearing words that pour forth through one of these bags
of dust that you all seem to identify with, rest assured the mind that inspires
those words is the very Mind that you are — that you are — and, therefore we
come together not to seek knowledge, not to strive to overcome, but, if you
would receive it, that which is coming to be born upon this plane is the end of
seeking, the time of celebration, the end of crucifixion. And what is
crucifixion but the perception of separation from all that God is, and God is
but Love. And the rebirthing through remembrance is the resurrection. 

I made a choice as a man, just as each of you in your own way make choices
every day. And some of you well know what it means to feel like you are being
crucified through the experiences of the world. If you have your April 15th,
that's a common time. You have experiences in which those that you love seem to
lead you through what is called death, and the anguish comes not because they
have left you — because they have not — but because for a moment you
unwittingly identified with the perception that who that being is, is the body,
subject, seemingly, to death. And loss comes, then, not because loss occurs in
reality but because you have misidentified reality with an illusion. 

And the choice that I made as a man was to be so outrageous as to believe that
I could demonstrate to the world that it is not real. And if one of my teachers
would have said to me when I was very young, "Guess what you're going to be
doing?" they would have never found me again. It was not until very, very late
in the game that it became evident to me what I was being asked to do. What was
welling up from within my heart — and you all know the same feeling; it's
really not fundamentally any different than feeling a welling up to pack up
your bags and leave your comfortable home and move to some island out in the
middle of an ocean. The same feelings come, don't they? "Is this going to work?
What's it going to be like when I do it?" And do you not call upon the same
Love that I called upon? "Just be with me through this." And indeed, I
demonstrated that death is not real, that even the body itself can be
resurrected and ascended into a form of Light, if you will, because it is
Light. That which creates this thing is really nothing more than Light. You've
made a thousand of them and none of them have really been you. 

What if in this moment you are willing to entertain the thought that right now
you are the one creating all of these bodies? It's a novel concept for some.
What if it were possible right now to look around the room and to relinquish
the habit of fear that keeps you from resting your eyes in union with
another's, who you think is a stranger? Know you that feeling? 

What if you were willing in this moment to acknowledge that the Light you see
in them is your own Light looking back at you? What if you were willing to look
upon every brother and sister, indeed upon every cloud that passes by through
the sky, upon every sparkling diamond created as the sunlight touches the sea
around this island, if you were to listen to every note that the bird sings,
and realize that that Light is shimmering back at you and the Light is your
own? Now, that would be outrageous. And dare to sit in your coffee shop and
tell your brothers the Truth: "We, indeed, are one, and I love the Light that
lives within you because I have acknowledged that it is within me." 

I wonder what would happen in this plane if just a handful were truly willing
to live that Truth? Do you think it might affect things? 

You see, there was a time when I simply chose to turn the dial to the audacious
choice of saying, "I and my Father are One. That makes me God's Child. And of
myself I do nothing, but through me my Father can do all things. I'm going to
be crazy enough to get out of the way, so that He might do it." And He said,
"Right, prove it." So, in a very manner of speaking, I said, "Just watch." And
a certain drama unfolded, misperceived by many, but not by me. I said unto my
friends, '"Where I go you cannot yet come, and indeed the day and the hour will
come and I will return and I will bring you to where I am." 

Could it be that that time is at hand? 

And a demonstration was made, and it was revealed to a Mind that we share
together that death is not real and that beyond the world of bodies, beyond the
world of separation, a shimmering Light, radiant in its splendor, is the Truth
that we share, and it is the essence alone of what is real. You cannot be
threatened. 

Indeed, the age of the end of seeking is upon us now. That is why there is a
proliferation of what you call masters. I prefer to call them friends. It does
make sense, doesn't it? If you call them a master, you have already given them
just a little bit…to the world's perception, that there is someone apart from
you and above you. And those of you that have learned to use that word, whether
in relationship to me or any of my other friends, begin to call them friends
and begin to feel each time you call upon them a sense of equality. It's very,
very important because, as you tune the frequency, the dial of the mind, you'll
experience what you have chosen. You see its effects and you forget that you
made the choice. And when someone looks upon me or another friend and perceives
them as being somehow further along in the game, high above them and far
removed from them, in their mind they have already chosen to set it up that
way. And you always experience what you choose to believe. 

Therefore, in your meditations and in your prayers, and hopefully in the midst
of your dancing and your singing, and your laughing and your playing, think
upon me. Think about any of the friends you've come to know well and remember
that they are as you are, and you are as they are. For in reality your equality
and your union with them has never been shaken and has never, in Truth, been
lost. 

It's very, very important to do that. Do not invoke a master above you, but
invite a friend of equal heart to reside with you. But you can have some fun
doing that. You can say, "Jeshua, get your buns over here." 

{Loud laughter} 

Why not? So, when next there is what you call a Sunday and the people drive
their automobiles to those buildings they call their churches, why not join
them? You could all go as a group. Pick one out and have some fun. 

And in unison, sitting in the front of the pews. Why do they call them pews? 

{Laughter} 

If I had to approach my Father the way that some religions have created, I'd
call it a "pew" myself. 

{Laughter} 

Sit there in unison and say, "Okay, Jeshua, gets your buns down here now." I
will gladly do so. Is it not time to release the false piety? Is it not time
for the changes to come so that you recognize that where you are, your temple
is with you? It resides within your heart, and every loving thought is,
therefore, the Truth that sets you free in every moment. Every moment is,
indeed, the beginning of something quite new and yet something very ancient and
eternal. Return to the simplicity of Love that embraces all things, allows all
things, extends forgiveness — not because there has been judgment, but
forgiveness because you've recognized that you once entertained a thought in
the mind of separation and forgot to laugh at it, and so you've forgiven
yourself and the Truth has been remembered. 

Now, the end of seeking is upon this plane. The time of remembrance begins to
blossom. It is what you could call the Spring of the year. And you can all do
this if you would like or you can just take my word for it, but you can very
easily step back from this drama and you can look upon all the aspects of the
shared mind called humanity and you can see that it's much like water boiling,
and just underneath the surface of the lid — it's been dormant for a while; the
lid seems to have been quite tightly closed — something is bubbling. Something
is churning. The lid shakes and rattles a little bit and creates the appearance
of some volatility, even physically in the air. What is really occurring is
that the holy Son of God is being remembered in all minds. That is the
stirring. It presses forth — and some of you know what that feels like. You
also know what it feels like to try to keep the lid on. Does it not create
great stress and tension even in the body? 

*Uh huh.* 

Just let the lid be blown off. Receive. When you walk down one of your streets,
the world would teach you to see yourself and everyone around you the way the
world has taught you to see yourself and everyone around you. But you can begin
to put this into practice easily. When you walk down one of your streets, stop
for just a moment. Stop right in your tracks. Take a nice deep breath. Let the
breath go and really see who it is that is around you. And in each of your
brothers and sisters there is no such thing as a stranger, and that mind, that
brother and that sister — rest assured, this is true — is crying out in their
own way with what they know how to do, they are crying out for somebody to live
the Truth for them.   If you could receive it now, perhaps nothing gives me
greater passion than to share the simplicity that your relationship is the
means for the world's salvation. Gone is the age of disappearing into some cave
high in the mountains, seeking enlightenment. 

Very rapidly there is dying the age in which enlightened friends have had to go
to caves high in the mountains just to stay safe. And it's time to bring it
down, down, down to this plane — when you are buying your groceries, putting
the gasoline in the automobile. By the way, it's not going to be all that much
longer when that will be something of antiquity. 

Now is the time for you to remember that you have not come to suffer the world.
You've come to enlighten the world. And that which enlightens the world is the
presence of Love, and that Love is in you now, right now. And you can give it
to whomever you choose — and only you can withhold it. 

Can you think of a circumstance that might be a legitimate reason for you to
withhold your Love? 

*No. If they don't want it. If it’s not reciprocated.* 

Reciprocated? It is God who loves you. Love, which alone is real, is
reciprocated with you before each breath and each thought that you think. They
may not seemingly want it, but is that a legitimate circumstance for
withholding it? For indeed, does not the sun — and I'm changing a little old
verse — does not the sun shine upon all things, both the just and the unjust?
And if your Father would not withhold good from you, no matter what, would you
withhold it from the world? 

Fear, it comes as a veil and a block. It comes only because of the habit of
identifying with something that has been past. That is what fear is, and yet,
fear itself can be the greatest of blessings given unto you when you recognize
that fear does not truly touch the holy Mind of Christ that dwells within you
and that if you are in a moment in which fear is arising, there's a reason for
it because nothing happens by accident. If you are in a seeming circumstance in
which fear comes up, you are being presented with the opportunity to use the
power of your own mind to choose anew, because the energies of that moment you
have experienced ten thousand times before. To live in this world, this plane,
in this lifetime or another, rest assured the energies of that moment have been
felt by you ten thousand times, and it will be felt again ten thousand more
times until you choose to walk through it. 

All of you, all of us, have had what are called rings of fear. When you went to
your kindergarten for your first day, you walked through a ring of fear and you
let go of your mother's hand, even though fear was there. And the second you
did that, "My goodness, there are a lot of friends to make." And you began to
play. And as long as you were allowing it to flow, it was timeless and it was
good. That same quality of experience is exactly what seems to separate you
from enlightenment or salvation. And the means to that place that some of you
have sought rather ingeniously for several lifetimes — very interesting dramas,
by the way — it's right where you are in every moment. There is a bridge, you
see, presented unto you with every breath you breathe, every thought you think.
Right where you are in the most ordinary of circumstances — quite frankly,
there is no such thing — right there, your bridge is before you. And if you
will be willing to be so outrageous and seemingly so insane as to let go of
fear to extend Love, you will discover the joy that you once felt when you let
go of your mother's hand and turned and walked into the classroom with the
strangers. 

Fear, fear itself is the thought of separation from God. Fear itself is the
thought of separation from God, and it does not occur at any time save now. And
you've experienced — indeed, you couldn't count them — the moments of
renouncement, in which you have believed that that sense of fear is real and
that it had to dictate to you the choices you would make. 

Are you beginning to see what we are seeking to share here in this? Your
monasteries are all around you, and the bridge to Heaven, if you will, is never
any further than just one thought. 

When I walked in this world, I would often go to my teachers when I was young
and I could always come up with some reason, some set of circumstances, and I
would say, 'Well, I'm understanding what you are saying and yes, I feel this
union, but there are these other times." You know that feeling? 

Please understand there are no other times. How do I know that? I chose to
bring forth a demonstration — call it the demonstration of all demonstrations —
a demonstration that included every death with pain that the human mind could
ever imagine or create: rejection, persecution, crucifixion, even bodily to be
stripped and beaten, mocked, laughed at, separated from those who loved me,
watching those who loved me fall into a state of depression and confusion and
fear and turn away from me — they thought — to feel indeed that which is called
the nails pounded through the hands and the feet. Now, you can't get much more
extreme than that. If you really want to awaken, that's what you have to do.
Just kidding. 

{Laughter} 

And yet, I learned in that moment how to walk through the ring of fear and to
extend Love constantly, no matter what. I want to share a story with you. It's
not too commonly known. It didn't make your history books. But there was one
who was sent to participate in my crucifixion, and as he knelt beside me and
placed a nail in the palm of my hand and began to raise the mallet, he made a
mistake. He looked at me and I at him as a friend. I saw the great ray of Light
shimmering radiantly, outshining the body, outshining the mind, outshining his
own perceptions. I touched that core of Christ within him and he felt it. And,
looking into my eyes, in a second, he saw the reflection of his own Truth, and
without a word, he dropped the mallet, he let go of the nail and he walked
away. 

That being set out on a journey. That being went through a lot of pain. A lot
of old guilt and shame came up because it wasn't the first time he'd been the
one sent to pound the nails. He travelled to distant lands and he began to
learn. Through many lifetimes he learned, and in his own way that one has been
a grand teacher. That one has learned not to be limited by space and time, and
this experience of a lifetime is one that this one has never talked about with
anybody, not even his clearest of channels and friends, if you will. But some
of you know who it is and some of you will learn who it is. No, I'm not going
to tell you. 

But rest assured, that one is a friend who has learned of his equality and
never ceases working to awaken and to heal anyone who will listen. This one's
not in physical form, no, and will not be. No need to. 

Now, what does all of that mean? It means first, that when you go to your
grocery store and the clerk fails to give you the right change, you can still
extend Love. It means that when your employer says, "Guess what. We're cutting
back. It's been nice knowing you," you can extend Love and accept the
perfection of that moment that is beginning to open a new door. 

Think of any set of circumstances you have ever experienced and imagine the
worst that could ever possibly come and rest assured, you will never find a set
of circumstances that holds the power to steal from you the power to use the
mind to choose Love. It also means that as you give, you receive, and to he
that gives all — she that gives all—all will be given. To those that withhold
all, even the little that they have will be taken from them. Not by a God who
is cruel and keeps track and score, but because it's a law of the universe. If
you don't water your flowers, they die. While to water them is to extend the
Love of Christ to your brother and unto your sister in all circumstances. 

Does that mean you put up with all of their insanity? No. It means you love
them so much that if they choose to refuse the extension of Love, you allow
that, too. And if you have to, you shake their dust from your sandals, not out
of judgment, but out of the quiet and simple recognition that you don't have to
push the river, because just around the corner there just might be somebody who
will receive it. Because you are the holy Child of God, you are worthy of
extending your Love to those who can receive it. You are not asked to suffer at
the hands of those who would deny the Light of Love. That old story is over
now. 

How is the world going to become a happy place if you don't choose to be happy
first? Rest assured there are countless of your brothers and sisters just
dying, literally, who are waiting for you to choose to be the one that no
longer tolerates error in themselves and chooses to be so happy, so joyous, so
outrageous as to allow the fullness of the Light within you to be lived through
you, no matter what. 

Become so crazy that you jump off the cliff. Let the breezes carry you where
they will, because you can trust them. You will be borne on wings of Love
itself. Some of you know perfectly well what I'm talking about — some of you to
different degrees. Trust Love. Trust Love to be present for you in all moments.
Trust the Truth that sets all things free. Separation does not exist and your
Father knows all things that you have need of if you will but ask — a pure
heart that chooses to remember Truth — not to cry out unto God, "Please, if
You've got time&hellip;." Stand in the strength of your Truth and throw your palms
upward toward Heaven and decree that it will be so. "Holy Father, I dare You to
overwhelm me with joy and with laughter and with friendship, with abundance,
with health" — whatever you want. "Give it to me and give it to me now! This
time I will receive it and I will extend it." 

So, you see, it's really very simple. I have come, just as many of my friends
are coming through some of you, through many that you've known and heard of. We
come because the time is at hand. And we come to any mind and any heart that
would just throw the shutter off a quarter of an inch and let us get our big
toes in. 

We come unto anyone who is willing to say, “That's it. I don't know the way and
I don't have to, but I'm ready to receive it. I'm ready to throw off the
shackles of the world. And if I have to move to the Mojavi Desert to do it, so
what. I will trust that that Guidance" — what I have called the Holy Spirit,
the Comforter, whose guidance never errs — "will always inform me. And if
there's an event that I need to come to, and if there's an opportunity just
around the corner, I will choose to be the one who seeks first the Kingdom of
Heaven, having heard and received absolutely." 

Guidance. Guidance is available to everyone at all times. And wherever you are,
the only distance between you and me, between you and any of our friends who
you feel an alignment with, the only distance is the width of a thought. If you
ever tried to measure the width of a thought&hellip;And when the mind says, "Oh, no,
it must be difficult. It's gotta be harder than this," remember that that
thought itself is a thought born of a world created to express the perception
of separation from God. That thought is wholly an illusion. 

So, you see, I didn't achieve union with God and then go about and proclaim it.
I proclaimed it and then shared it. Does that make sense to you? 

Now, what is all of this proliferation of these friends — channeling, you call
it — through anybody who is willing to allow it to take place? What on earth is
going on? We need you as much as you ever needed us. We need you because when
we come and whisper in the dreams of our brothers and sisters who believe in
the dimensions of the body as being the finality of their reality, the whisper
we shout to create circumstances ought to get their attention — and it does for
a moment — and then the old programing comes back. 

There's some of you that know what's that like. "Well, I had this dream, and in
this dream this master appeared to me" — friend, excuse me — "and it was like I
was in this incredible temple and it was just the most amazing thing, but, you
know, now that the day has gone on, I really can't remember what we shared."
All that's happened is that you've allow the programming of the mind to say,
"No, that was a dream. Now you're dealing with reality." And so you shifted
your attention, the energy of the mind, and created a separation that drops a
veil. 

Now, we need you as much as you ever needed us because you are the one whom
your brothers and sisters believe is real. Does that make sense? After all, if
they run into you in the street, they are going to bounce back and say, "You
must be real. I just ran into your body." 

You see, teaching is an art. It requires that the teacher look and go, "Omph,
the student speaks French. If I try to communicate in Italian, it's not going
to work." Your world is a world in which the prevalent belief has been that
bodies are somehow the final reality, that there is a wall of separation, and
that minds, of course, exist within this thing you call a skull and, therefore,
you can have something called a private thought. I am sorry to disappoint you. 

And the point is, everybody knows these things. How many times have you thought
about a friend and the phone rings and it's them? "Oh, my goodness, what a
coincidence." But your brother and sister who believes that the world of the
body is its reality needs you, because you seem to be yet within the body and,
therefore, right where you are, you are the one who can walk and talk and
extend Love in a way that is visible and can be felt by those around you, until
they learn to feel from a different level, until they learn to see with
different eyes — as many of you have learned to feel or to see. You, therefore,
are the bridge that I talked about earlier. You are the bridge sent to this
world, the bridge that can link the mind of your brother or sister who yet
believes that they are separate from God, and can link them to the Love of God
by demonstrating that it is alive within you. 

That is what I meant when I said that the life that you are living holds a
purpose which is identical to the life that was given unto me which seems to
have made headlines. If you could feel that, truly feel it— and if it seems too
difficult, just play the game of entertaining the thought that maybe it’s true
— "what would that then mean in my life? What things would I need to allow to
be released from my mind? What obstacles to the presence of Love would need to
be released?” 

“What if I were to awaken tomorrow morning and say to myself, 'I am here to
extend Love. I am the perfect and enlightened and awakened holy Child of God. I
am a great ray of Light that far outshines all worlds, and I cannot help but be
that which I am created to be. I am, therefore, the presence of Love. This and
this alone is the choice that I make?” If you want to borrow my old words, "Not
my will but Thine be done." 

What if you were to set aside all the perceptions you've ever been taught about
who you are and what the world is for, and began to allow a different voice to
teach you? What is this moment for? It will not be hidden from you, because
they are all the same. This moment is for the extension of Love that can bring
the miracle of the Atonement to the world. And a great shift indeed comes, and
some of you have felt it. It seems indeed outrageous at first, to sit on the
edge of your bed in the morning and put your feet on the carpet or on the floor
and go, "My God, this body isn't me. It's a tool for communicating the Truth.
It has been given unto me by my precious and Holy Mother, this Earth, given
unto me as a temple to be loved and to be honored. And it's for no other
purpose than to extend the Love of Christ, that the world might remember that
Heaven might again be born on Earth." 

What, then, is the purpose of the world? To demonstrate that it cannot be a
barrier to Heaven. That all things can be translated through Love. And no one
can do it but you. No one can do it but us — for there is no one who is alone.
And all power under Heaven and Earth is given unto you to choose anew with each
moment — even though it seems so insane to be but the presence of Love and to
choose to listen to that Guidance that comes, not from seemingly outside, but
from within the depth of your own heart. And that Guidance will bring you the
strength to trust in Him. 

I have, indeed, not come back — a bit of a misnomer since I never really left —
but I have not come back to be the saviour of the world. And most of you are
aware of that. I have come back to celebrate the rebirthing, the remembrance of
the holy Son of God, the Christ Mind that dwells within all hearts and all
minds, so that we can dance and play and sing and laugh together as equals. To
look into each other's eyes — and here I mean both on the physical plane and
all of the non-physical planes as well because your heart can see them all in
the twinkling of an eye — so that the whole of creation again dances together
as one. 

I have come — and most particularly in this evening — to share with you that
the end of seeking is upon us. It will not be much longer when the age of
teachers will have passed. I mean by this the teachers that most of you know
about; that is, the age of teachers where someone has been selected and set
apart, called highly enlightened — after all, they did it to me, too — and
wisdom comes from them. The age of teaching will continue until every brother
and sister's voice is raised with ours. But the teaching will change because
there will be a proliferation in numbers, if you will, of those that know the
Truth and live it. 

And indeed, the day is not far off when you will come to sit with me — with any
one of the two thousand and three friends through whom I'm doing a similar work
as I am doing right now in this hour — and you will come not with questions,
you will come not because you seek, but you will come and abide with me and not
a word will be spoken. There will be a Light that shines so brightly,
recognized equally by all, and simply the holy Child of God, the Christ
eternal, will dance with itself and the world will join us in our dancing. Let
there be no doubt about this. 

For the fulfillment of all things will come to pass, that each miracle, each
miracle, shortens the need for time itself — because time is nothing more than
a learning device, and once you get it, what do you need time for? When you, my
equals, choose to be in the presence of Love, to look inside and say, "You
know, I don't need to suffer any longer. I allow unlimitedness to be lived
through me. Father, Mother God, put this bag of dust wherever You want it,"
when you choose to join with me in that, you have extended the miracle of the
potential for Atonement to the whole of the world. 

Each time you join with me and say, "That's right. I am but the presence of
Love," though you may not see it, you have touched all minds. All minds. That's
what's creating the acceleration and the quickening. The ripples are growing in
number because somewhere a long time ago one mind chose to awaken. It occurred
far before I had my lifetime upon this plane. But because it happened, I, too,
was able to choose the Atonement. I simply got more press. 

Now, because I got more press, I am in charge of the Atonement. And you all
know what that means. You know what it's like even in your world. If the whole
world says somebody's really got it, who do they listen to? And so, God in Her
infinite wisdom, said, "You know, if they are going to deny it in themselves
and project it on to you, you've got the job." And it's good work if you can
get it. And you can. 

I am, indeed, in charge of Atonement. All it means is that within the drama of
the beautiful and holy Child of God, that obviously held a thought and dreamed
a dream at which he forgot to laugh, and thus proliferated separation upon
separation upon separation, world upon world upon world, it just means that
within that drama in this world, I have come to signify the Atonement itself
because I lived it and demonstrated it. And because the world has given me that
authority, the Comforter, the Holy Spirit, knows how to use what is offered.
And that is all I meant when I said, "Not my will but Thine." And if my Father
would have said, "Go be a street sweeper," I would have started sweeping
streets. 

Something else was given unto me. You were given to me, and I have never left
you and I will never forsake you. No, it doesn't mean you have to profess
belief in me, but it does mean you need to acknowledge belief in yourself. 

Indeed, I love you as I have always loved you. What comes to pass cannot be put
into words, and the words of this world are words that have come forth from the
perception of separation. At best they can point to; they can inspire. They can
never wholly describe. Only direct experience can do that. And I have said it a
thousand times and I'll say it a thousand more, there will indeed come an age
upon this world in which Christ has been returned to every heart and every
mind, the dream of separation has been forgotten and all things are at peace,
and the holy Son of God has awakened from the thought at which he once failed
to laugh. 

Will it come quickly? Oh, yes, because miracles shorten the need for time. All
it takes is your willingness to tune your dial, to remember to use time
constructively. And the only constructive use is to remember. "Yes, I can
re-tune my dial to a frequency of Love. I can re-tune my dial to a thought that
says, 'I am one with all of creation, and by Your guidance it will come because
I have decreed it to be so.'" 

Many technologies are going to begin, shall we say, to be showered upon you,
technologies that will touch every dimension of your experience. And this world
cannot prevent, shall we say, the weaving of the tapestry in its perfect time. 

Fear not the destruction of this Earth. It will not occur because you are
choosing to be part of the solution. Every loving thought is true and every
loving thought heals. There is nothing outside of you and separation does not
exist. 

Therefore, when you look upon your brother or sister and see naught but the
face of Christ and when your thoughts about them are filled with Love, you have
healed and uplifted the world. When a million minds see nothing but the face of
Christ everywhere they look, how quickly will those upon whom they look awaken
and join them? 

Some of you know the feeling lately, a bit of acceleration going on. It’s just
getting started. So in the end, this is the great and difficult task you have.
Yes, you know what I'm about to say: Sing, laugh, dance, and play in each and
every day. Some of you I have said that to a thousand times. Never let one day
go by in which you forget to do these things. If the body is sick, do it
anyway. If you just lost the job, do it anyway. It is very, very, important
because, you see, Heaven is a place, if you will, of perfect life and perfect
joy. And what changes the frequencies of the cells of your body? The thoughts
you choose to tune your dial to. When you choose thoughts of joy, joy descends
upon you, and that joy is like a frequency. The faster it begins to spin within
you, the more it magnetizes to you that of like frequency. Does that make sense
to you? 

So when things aren't going well and miracles aren't flowing, don't look
outside of yourself. Take time out from the world and dance. Dance and sing and
play every time you feel alone, every time you feel persecuted. Call somebody
who will receive your Love. If you don't know anybody, it's about time you
found somebody. You have those things that are yellow. The pages, ‘The Yellow
Pages’. 

If you are here to extend Love, to feel that joy that comes from communion with
your brother and sister, if it's not going well, why not just sit down with
your telephone and start dialing numbers until you find somebody that will
receive that Love. Now, I know it's a complicated technique. It requires
lifetimes of meditation. You have to do it on a perfectly empty stomach&hellip; 

{Loud laughter} 

Or you can do it where you want to. Why not? Love. Love alone heals. No
technique you've ever been taught can bring Love about, but every technique
you've ever learned can be empowered when you bring your Love to it. 

It's what I meant when I said, "Seek first the Kingdom of Heaven." Never sit
once again to meditate to try to get to Heaven. Bring Heaven to your
meditation. Some of you very, very quickly are going to go to different
friends, teachers, and suddenly something is going to shift. No, you are not
going to get up and walk away or throw tomatoes, but in your sitting there you
are going to realize something has changed in you, and you realize that the
seeker has been laid to rest and you are there because Spirit has asked you to
be there, to help hold the frequency and uphold the energy and join in
communion with a friend whom you appreciate and is to be loved. Does that make
sense to you? 

*Yes.* 

Some of you have tried to come unto me for many, many lifetimes. I've never
denied you, though you've denied me. Only now in this time frame, if you will,
which you experience again by your wholly free choice, you have learned,
"Jeshua is my friend and my brother, not my saviour. Thank God." 

So, many changes are coming to this plane. Change is, after all, the nature of
this plane because there was an ancient time in which it was created to be a
creation unlike those of God. But nothing is outside of the reach of the Love
of God, and all that fearful minds have sought to create have become translated
into the very means that propel the mind to seek the Truth. And if you would
but join me for a moment and step back and see the whole expanse of time and
all worlds that have ever arisen and passed away, you will see that it's all
been one turning, one universe, if you will, one drama of believing in
separation and returning unto union. And every moment of every experience has
served the process of your returning. 

And the one thing I want to leave you with before we take what you call a break
— what do you break when you break? — one thing I want to leave you with is
this: nothing arises by accident. Each and every one of you have received an
invitation to be here. Yes, there were a few more that had invitations but
chose not to open them this time. 

Because you've opened the invitation, I want to share with you that in the
depth of your soul, no matter how unwitting or unconscious it may seem to have
been, you have chosen to come to the threshold of the Kingdom, at which there
is but one choice to be made: the choice to be awake. The choice that here and
now you will choose with me to share in the Atonement and to release the past,
because it is gone, to release the hurts and the limitations that you think you
must still learn something from, to say you are worthy of a life in the Kingdom
of Heaven and you will choose that and that alone, and anybody that refuses to
honor the Light that you are, you shake their dust from your sandals and walk
with me to God. 

That is now the blessing of the gift I come to give you this evening — for I am
but a messenger sent of my Father, Whose Love is above all things — to share
with you the reality that we live as grace: you are whole now and we are
together now, and because you are my friends, you are the one Light of this
world, and because we walk together, we walk with certainty and the end of the
journey comes quickly. Walk, then, with great strength and great joy. And if
you would know your Father's will for you, believe and ask, and be willing to
receive. This world is not your home, but while it lasts, it will be translated
into that which reflects the Truth that has already set you free. 

And the time that remains is given unto you, is given unto you that you might
allow me to work miracles through you, because it is by seeing them through
you, touching the lives of others, that you must then come to acknowledge that
the miracle has occurred within you, do you see? And what else could time be
for but save to embrace miracles? Why not cut loose and let miracles become
your guide — by being so outrageous as to believe that you and your Father are
One? 

You are the Light of this world, and your light shines with every loving
thought. Your numbers are going to be growing within this little speck of dust
out in the ocean. It used to be one ancient land. Indeed. 

So, how are you all doing? 

*Great. Real good.* 

Now, I know that most of you have not heard anything that's new. There's never
been anything that's new. God created what is true and what is real and what is
changeless: you, the holy Offspring of Love Itself, and your Light shines
forever, unbounded, eternal. You have no beginning and you have no end. Use
time, then, to remember. And when you are in your coffee shop, when you are in
your monastery, if ever the thought should arise, "I don't know if I have the
strength to do this" — whatever "this" is — I say this unto you with great
Truth: I will give unto you my strength until yours is as certain as mine
because I've learned that as I give it away, it grows even within me tenfold. 

So, the circuits are never overloaded and I come only to be your friend. So let
the bodies have a little break. If you choose to return — and I want to
emphasize, "if you choose”, because, if you would accept it, nothing ever
occurs in your life without your total free acknowledgement and acceptance. You
are the one that chooses all the things that you have experienced. So if you
choose to return after the break of a few minutes, then if you have questions,
we will entertain them together — because no question is ever for just one
person anyway and every question that somehow finds its answer among us uplifts
and heals all of us. So, we'll be doing things just a little bit differently. I
think you might find it rather interesting. So enjoy your break. And as you are
taking them, when you go into what you call your little bathrooms, remember, we
are not separate one from another. 

{Loud laughter} 

I will see you when you return. 

Great, then, are the blessings that indeed we share together. Great are the
blessings extended unto us of this our precious and Holy Mother, this Earth.
Great are the blessings that are extended unto us of the One that I have
called, "Abba," Father. So much so that the union of these two brings forth but
a state of blessing so that each moment is sacred and each place on which the
holy Child of God walks is indeed holy ground. And wherever two or more are
gathered in the name of One who is but the presence of Love in form, Christ
eternal, we are together as one. Wherever two or three come together in that
recognition that only Love is real, the whole of creation is lifted. 

What then is there left to do but to celebrate together, to laugh, to dance, to
play together? Possibly to entertain questions that teach us nothing new and
the answers reveal nothing that we have not known before. But the process
itself — some of you understand this — the process itself sometimes, perhaps
even often, brings forth questions that are asked for someone who is not
physically present and the answer given is given to them because separation
does not exist. 

I said earlier that there were some who had received the invitation but have
chosen not to open it, and yet a part of them has opened it and though the body
hasn't been physically brought to this location, part of them is tuned in. So
understand well that when a question comes to your mind suddenly, it could be
for you. It might not be. Are you willing, then, to ask it for those that may
not even be present? And yet, every question asked and the answer that will
come forth from us serves gently in the dissolution of the veils that would
keep the holy Child of God separate from God. Every question and every answer.
And if the world be uplifted, then we are uplifted as well. Does all of that
make sense to you? 

Yes. So, let us begin. Do you have any questions? 

*Yes, I do. Jeshua, I'm always looking for guidance and I don't hear voices. I
don't see visions that I am aware of.* 

I'm glad you qualified that. 

*But when I'm with people or when I am in a place where my heart is open, I know
l am in the right place and the right people. When l notice something
beautiful. Those are the kinds of things that make me feel like I'm walking in
the right direction — like green lights on the street, a place to park in a
busy area. But last month I got shingles, which you know is like an old
person's disease and ever since I've been trying to understand what that's
about. Is there any meaning in that for me? And it's affected one of my eyes
and that hasn't gone away. I need help understanding that. And also, is there
something I should be doing?*

It is simply an act of punishment by an angry God. 

{Laughter} 

Beloved friend, are there not times in which you notice that you do feel like
an old person? 

*Yes.* 

You see, in a group like this, we can't let you get by with just a silent
internal agreement. And are there not at times things that you would not look
upon, that you wish you didn't need to see? 

*Such as what?* 

At one level, what you would call it injustice, insanity, lack of mindfulness,
senseless pain and suffering. But in Truth, beloved friend, much closer to
home, are there not at times things that you would perceive you would not want
to look upon within yourself? Moments in which there is a frailty and a fear?
Moments in which an old voice seems to come back to you, in which you begin to
doubt the safety, shall we say, of the universe in which you live, in which you
begin to doubt yourself? Is that not true? 

*Yes.* 

Do these moments not come often seemingly uncaused by the set of circumstances
around you? They just seem to well up in the midst of even your busiest of
moments? 

Precious friend, the moments, in which you are recognizing what you have called
here in this hour, of beauty, these moments are growing, are they not? 

*Yes.* 

Was there not a time when you feared you might never behold or feel or see that
which was truly beautiful? 

*Yes, definitely.* 

There is yet within you — and its roots are very old — there is yet within you
a pattern in which — and you've well voiced it though you haven't quite heard
what you, yourself said — in which, when you are, shall we say, with a certain
group of people or certain sets of circumstances, the heart can be open and you
behold that which is beautiful and you feel that perhaps you've been guided
there and you are in the right place. But there is yet a pattern within you
when things get a little bit sticky and when you look out upon this world and
behold some of the insanities that go on, there is a place within you that is
fearful of allowing the heart to truly be open even in those moments. Know you
that feeling? 

*Yes.* 

Time to let that one be healed. That which has been called the sickness that
has come to the experience of late speaks to you of those times in which you
have felt yourself to be as an old person, one who has weights upon the
shoulders so that the body stoops, and what you haven't been willing to look at
wholly is this pattern, this pattern that sometimes creeps in, that you would
perceive — if you were to look at it completely and wholly — just initially you
would perceive it as an inability on your part to let the heart be open and
vulnerable even though the circumstances may not feel safe. Isn't safety one of
the issues that you've had? 

Now, there is then in the depth of the mind the belief or the perception that
if you were to look upon this block, this fear, this vulnerability, that you
would then look upon it and need to make a judgment about your unworthiness.
That is, a sense of, "I knew I couldn't do it. I must not be worthy." Do you
see? 

Now, as you have begun to allow healing to come, over the past few years indeed
— and the relationship you are now in was a major step in your own process of
choosing healing; and we are not saying anything to you that you don't know. 

*Yes.* 

As you have allowed those moments of the beautiful to come to you, it is like
allowing a little bit more Light, a little bit more Light to come into the room
of the heart. Now, Light's an interesting thing because as it builds, as its
momentum builds, it kind of takes on its own life and it doesn't want to leave
a stone unturned. It wants to bring Light underneath every piece of furniture.
It wants to somehow get underneath the carpets. It wants to fill the whole room
with Light, and so it begins to bring up for you, if you are willing to look at
it, things that are representing in your life the places where you are keeping
a few shadows back from yourself. The sickness says to you that the momentum of
Light that is growing within you wants also to shine itself on this most deep
strata, if you will, of the obstacles to the presence of Love that have been
within the mind: a fear of a lack of safety that then gets translated in the
mind as a weakness, a lack of strength, a lack of ability to be wholly loving. 

Now, I want to share with you first, that that perception is entirely erroneous
but it is one that you have carried, and you've carried it deeply and so it has
left its mark upon you and upon your experience. We both know that in times
past you have felt that you have never fared well in circumstances where,
according to your perception, there has been a lack of safety. Huh? 

*Yes.* 

Precious and holy friend, there is no lack of strength within you, and the
power and the ability and the grace to throw open the shutters of the heart
even when the mind is perceiving lack of safety, that strength is within you.
The sickness that has come to the body speaks of the conflict that is yet
within the mind. Look well, then, upon that which seems fearful yet within you.
Begin to bring the wholeness of the Mind of Christ to that. How do you do it? 

No, you don't have to rush out and create a whole lot of circumstances to make
you feel unsafe. What you can do is to begin to bring into your meditation
memories of those times when you have not felt safe and have felt yourself
contract and hold back, in which your fear at times has caused you virtually,
shall we say, to run from the circumstance. Go back to those times and hold
them lovingly in your meditation. Shine your Light upon them. As the memories
come back, even the body will change. That is, you will have some shortness of
breath — which is always a sign of giving into fear and tension. Be with that
memory and relive it. See it in its entirety and make a different choice in the
memory itself. 

In other words, re-script, would be a another way of putting it, until you feel
— not just see or not just think, but you feel — a change within your beingness
as you look upon that memory. Feel how great it feels to allow the heart to be
open, to be filled with Love, to be vulnerable even in the midst of those
circumstances that have elicited the kind of fear that we are talking about. 

This in itself will begin a process that will create a momentum of shifting and
healing a very deep place in the mind that you've not quite been willing to,
shall we say, to turn and look at head on because of the pattern of believing
that there is something fearful and overwhelming there. In this sense, it is
that underlying gnawing feeling that "I'm not quite enough." Do you know that
feeling? 

*I do.* 

Are you willing to give that a try? 

*Yes.* 

Now, I have said to you that I will give you my strength until yours is as
certain as mine. You will not look upon those memories alone. All you need do
is think on me as you begin that process in your meditation and I will assist
you in, shall we say, reshuffling the cards of the deck. This will, then, begin
to mirror itself to you as your life continues to set the stage for certain
experiences that could be deemed as fearful, as non-beautiful, but what will
happen is that you will begin to catch that you are making a different choice —
not deliberately with the mind, but that you will recognize that, "Somehow the
choice must have been made differently because I am reacting differently." And
a recognition of the strength that is truthfully within you will begin to dawn.
You're not far off, beloved friend, from the glorious recognition that you are
safe always and the strength is within you. 

Does that help? 

A few years ago you would not have asked the question. What you would have done
in your mind, you would have said, "Yes, I was sick. Yeah, well, it's getting
better now." Do you see? But this time you have asked the question. You asked
from the depth of your being, "Okay, now what's really going on here?" Do you
see? It is already a sign that the Light is getting in, causing the stirrings,
causing the healings to come. 

*I've been kind of impatient.* 

Ah, remember patience means to make power slowly and certainly. Thank God,
Leonardo da Vinci was not impatient. Thank God, God was not impatient when He
created you as the Thought of perfect Love in form. Much healing will soon come
to the depth of your mind, and with that will come healing to the body if you
want it. And if it gets to be too much, just have your mate take you dancing. 

Is there anything more you would like to talk about? 

*I think that's enough for now. Is there anything more you want to tell me?* 

Everything. And, beloved friend, I will tell you everything.

*Thanks, Jeshua.* 

Thank you. It is not of great value to speak if there's no one willing to
listen. Indeed. 

*Hello, Jeshua.* 

Hello. 

*The last time I talked with you in the group like this, you mentioned to me I
would see myself as waiting along the road. I have about three questions
tonight. The first one is: the program that we're are all involved with, that
Karen brought to Hawaii — has brought here, and we are all involved with — my
heart and the reception that I've been getting from you directly is that this
is an answer and will assist many of us. The next question I have for
myself&hellip;well, the question is: would you please shed some light on that&hellip;
inspiration for the work that I am doing and going to do, what is the next step
for me? Also, I'd like assistance with writing the book that I know I'm to be
writing. I've been finding it difficult to be at peace the last few months in
the restructuring that's going on. And the other question that I have is: when
is my mate coming out? I don't usually ask it in that way but if you could shed
light on that — and I know it's a matter of processing and preparing, which I
have been doing — I would very much like to receive.*

The mate will come when you are finished, what you call, processing, and you
will be finished when you are willing to make a new choice: to begin to give up
the perception that you must process or purify that which is already untainted. 

Now, your statement, questions that you have laid out in order were done so
because there is a part of you that knows that they will flow in that order.
Now, that program that you are talking about is indeed a stepping-stone. What
it does fundamentally is this: it presents an opportunity for others to let go
of limited perceptions of how abundance can come. 

*Yes. Yes, we found that.* 

For instance, without hard work and struggle — my, my, my — and indeed with fun
and with joy. As you focus your attention on that, it will bring up for you
some things that can then be healed, certain perceptions, certain limitations
you've held about yourself and about abundance. When this begins to be cleared
within you, you'll find that the writing simply is going to flow. You won't be
able to put it off and assistance will come. It will be there with you as you
do the writing. Do you see? 

*Yes.* 

Now, that first step is the next step in the work that you are going to be
doing because it clears some things that are a little muddled. It creates what
you call, taking the pressure off, and as the writing then flowers, then you
will see that there is, shall we say, a new river flowing through you, and very
naturally and effortlessly certain forms of work within this blossom like
flowers. When this occurs, it is time to make room in half the closet. 

Now, do you see then how your statements laid out exactly what is going to be
unfolding for you? 

*Yes, thank you.* 

So, as they say, first things first. 

*So this program, as I received it, is a priority in conjunction with what else
I'm doing? Because I'm involved with another program at this time. It's a
little more complex.*

Integrate. 

*You know what it is. So, thank you. That's confirmation. And am I to remain on
Oahu for another few years or&hellip;?*

More than likely it will be better seen as a matter of months than years. I say
more than likely because it depends on the completion of the first step. Do you
see? 

*Yes.* 

There is another dot in the water that will beckon to you. It does beckon to
you. 

*Yes, but I ignore it.* 

Yes. It would not be the right time. 

*Hello, Jeshua. I feel like I have come to this planet to network, to bring
different strands together, to weave a tapestry of people and consciousness and
ideas to help bring in the new paradise, and things have been going well here
in Hawaii, but now this other opportunity is opening up in New York and I've
been asking for some clear guidance as to which direction to go in, and I'm not
sure. I'm sort of leaning in the direction of going to New York, and yet my
heart is still attached to being here. So I'm wondering if you can give me some
guidance on that?*

First of all, you cannot go there without taking here with you and that which
calls you to that location should best be seen as an interim step and will not
be in any sense your final destination. Down the road you will indeed find
yourself spending the majority of your time in places such as this as opposed
to places such as that. 

Now, rather than allowing conflict to come to the mind for right now, or any
time in the future, rather than wrestling for guidance about which way to go
and noticing the conflict in the heart because of the attachment in the heart
to this very ancient   homeland of yours, let your attention be on doing the
weaving that you've been doing, bringing into manifestation certain levels of
abundance that will then provide some breathing room, some freedom. When you
think about this possible journey opportunity in a place that seems so far away
in more ways than one, just let it be there. 

In other words, I am asking you to set aside the need to come to a conclusion.
To put aside the restlessness and the conflict, and just notice, "Something's
speaking to me. Okay, that's fine." Then let your attention for right now,
especially, be wholly on the weaving of the tapestry that's going on. That will
be the foundation, the springboard, that will bring the clarity to you in the
right time. The momentum within you is to indeed go to that place. It would not
be appropriate to go, shall we say, immediately. And yet, the time frame need
not be very long. A couple of months. It will come to take place as you allow
the conflict that has been going on in the mind to be set aside and just to
recognize all things are unfolding perfectly, trust where you are, and that the
whole of your attention joyfully be on the weaving of the tapestry. You know
what we are speaking of there. 

Now, the opportunity in that place is going to bring forth to you much good. In
this sense, the good is that much healing, much clearing is going to occur,
much strengthening within yourself. Again it should be seen as an interim kind
of journey and that down the road you are going to find yourself spending the
vast majority of your time and energies in places such as this, in climates
such as this. You do far better, shall we say, around bodies of healing water.
It's a very subtle thing, but you need to allow the conflict to leave the mind.
You see the call there. You see the opportunity there. Say, "Yes, okay." Let
the whole of your attention be on what is unfolding for you here and now. It's
very important not just for you but for many of the others. 

Yes, I have that sense that I'm holding the energy and it's important. Not only
for the bringing forth of my own abundance and my own letting go of all
limitations but also being tied to the community here. 

Yes, it is a very necessary step. You see, what's going to need to happen on
this plane is that those involved in allowing themselves to be the bridge
between the old and the new, would be one way to put it, the shift of paradigms
that's occurring, is that they are going to need to give up their lack issues
and not see abundance, even material abundance, as somehow opposed to spiritual
abundance. There is still going to be the need in this transition that's
occurring for those that are involved in bringing Light to the planet to be
able to demonstrate to others with very ingrained beliefs that spirituality and
materiality need not be opposed one unto the other. And coming into abundance,
then, allows freedom in this world, as the world is for now, to begin to, shall
we say, create different kinds of projects, get certain things moving and get
certain things done. So abundance, giving up those lack issues, is a very
important process of the awakening process that is occurring in many. 

Does it help you understand that just a little? 

*Yes, absolutely, because I have been feeling like I have all of this work to do
on this planet and yet have felt hampered by lack of money to give me the
freedom to do it, and I feel like that's finally going to be solved.*

The money won't give you the freedom to do it, but the freedom from your
limitations to solve what seems to be the limitations of money will bring the
freedom and the manifestation of things that you will be asked to do. Do you
see? 

*Yes.* 

It's not the money that's the limit. It's the concepts and ideas you have held
about yourself and about the world that have created a bit of a block in the
realm of monies. So as you focus your attention, then, on the freedom to create
joyfully, everything else will fall in place. 

*Thank you.* 

*Jeshua, could I ask a couple of questions of you? First, would you like to
comment on diet and the spiritual path? Most of the spiritual paths, including
the Essenes that you -were a member of, advocated a vegetarian diet, but in
modem spiritual paths the tendency is to allow the choice to the student.
There's the issue of karmic consequences of this and practice of compassion.
Also another question is about the atonement of karmic burdens. There are some
teachings that claim that you can transmute that by choice into positive
energy. Other teachings say that you are innately pure so all you need to do is
transcend it and, of course, there are other teachings like the Buddhist that
say that somewhat like you said, the statement, “Whatever you sow you shall
reap.” That means good seeds as well as bad seeds will be reaped or experienced
— whether you call it belief systems or creating realities. Another question
is, you speak of belief systems and concepts creating your reality. Can you
comment on how to identify it, dissolve it, if it's undesirable and create new
ones which can manifest more quickly? In other words, a process which is
related to your ascension&hellip;? What would it take for a Light worker to actually
attain the ascension conversion into the Light body? You know, a lot of people
follow many teachings and techniques, and a lot of times you find in their
actual life they didn't achieve what they taught.*

That's true. Now, that's a very large list of questions. Now, to begin with,
the greatest of diets, this is absolutely necessary, consists — and that is why
this substance was channeled through mankind some time ago — consists of six
cans of your ‘Cola Cola’ every morning at four a.m., followed by a box of what
you call the cereals that they put in the grocery stores — the one with all the
little colored dyes and the funny little shapes. 

*‘Lucky Charms’.* 

Ah, that is a good name. 

Now, I was taught that the Earth provides all that the body needs because the
body is the Earth itself, and that the herbs of the field shall be as one's
meat. That is still very wise counsel. Will diet enlighten you? Not at all.
Will the lack of a certain diet prevent your awakening? Not at all. 

However, you are here to demonstrate the wisdom of an awakened mind, and while
time lasts there is but one lesson you need learn and you need demonstrate:
"There is nothing outside of me." Not a blade of grass, not a creature that
walks upon this Earth, who swims in the oceans, is outside of you. 

So what I want to direct your attention to is a correction of understanding
that has permeated religious and spiritual circles for too long. The tradition
in which I was raised, the Essene tradition, taught that man should live in
harmony with Earth, with the energies of the Earth, taught that the herbs of
the field are given as one's meat. This was not done from a perception that you
had to eat this way in order to get to Heaven, but rather as an expression of
one's understanding of the unity of all things and the sacredness of life. 

The Earth is not outside of you. Therefore, the choices you make create
effects. The Earth provides the body all that it ever needs and that which is
closest to the Earth in its natural cycles is best. It is quite simple. Now, if
one eats meat, are they denied entrance into Heaven? Of course not, because
there is no denial. You are, indeed, pure and pristine in the state of reality. 

Ascension. Ascension does not occur for those who continually seek to make it
happen because they haven't first made peace with where they are. In other
words, there are many upon this plane who are still seeking to avoid being here
and the ascension game is but another grand device used by the ego to try to
avoid responsibility for learning the simple lesson that “There is nothing
outside of one's self.” The way that you transcend the world is to embrace and
love the world. The way that you transcend the body is to embrace and love the
body. 

Therefore, make no moral judgment about your diet, but allow it to be as a
mirror to you about what you believe about yourself and the world around you.
To eat unconsciously shows you that you are carrying the belief that your
thoughts have no effects. But I say unto you: there is no such thing as an idle
thought. Bring mindfulness into what you are doing. Anytime you eat a
substance, don't do it with judgment and don't do it with a pre-set standard
that says somehow "This is spiritual" and "This isn't." But rather, look at the
motivation and the unconscious habits that have brought you to that moment, and
then ask of your own internal guidance, "Is this the appropriate thing for me
to be doing now if my choice is to demonstrate the fullness of a mind that is
awake?" Heaven forbid responsibility. 

What is best and wisest for you, will reveal itself to you when you are willing
to bring a simple and gentle honesty to each moment. It's a very serious thing
to do, it seems, because the world, along with the ego, will constantly try to
tell you that you don't need to be responsible. And yet, I say this unto you:
the dimensions of your responsibility would paralyze you if you knew just how
broad they really were. And how broad are they? There's nothing outside of you. 

The herbs of the field indeed provide all that you need simply, gently and
easily. It can take some practice and some correction because the body follows
suit according to what the mind has learned to do or chosen to do. So the body
learns certain patterns, certain energetic patterns, and it could take some
time to have the body relearn what you would teach it anew. I rarely ate more
often than once a day and that meal was often quite small. 

Do you need, then, to follow suit with such a program? Do you need to allow
yourself to fast two days out of every week or even three or every four? No.
You need only begin to relinquish your grip on unconscious habits and ask that
Love be your guide in all things, and Love will gently teach you, right down to
answer the question, "What substance needs to go into the body at this moment?"
It's really quite simple. So, what I advocate, then, is not attachment to a
rigid form or set of beliefs or ideas but the gentle mindfulness of bringing
Love and awareness back to every habit that you carry — by being gentle and
loving with yourself at all times. Play with it. When next you grab a substance
to eat, take just a moment, a nice deep breath and exhale, and ask, "Is this
substance optimal for me in this moment?" You will get your answer. 

Let wisdom teach you of itself. It is time to set aside strict adherence to any
set of beliefs about anything because that requires, you see, that you come
back to trust in your own internal guidance. I would say, however, that as one
awakens, the desire for lightness, even in the body, begins to become
paramount, and things that never seemed to bother you before, you begin to be
sensitive to. Noise and crowds, certain substances that are not really helping
the body to heal and rejuvenate. You begin to be far more sensitive and,
therefore, it requires at times even a greater vigilance or a greater
discipline, a greater level of honesty about who you are and where you are in
this world. 

It is very easy to use the mind to justify anything that the ego wants
justified. Truth is not about justification. It's about the desire to extend
the Love of Christ in complete fullness and without any obstacles or
impediments whatsoever. 

Does that help you with all of those questions? 

*Yes. Could you address the one on identifying&hellip;dissolving the systems that
don't work&hellip;In other words, the unconscious patterns of&hellip;which new beliefs to
adopt to create your reality, and I’m wondering&hellip;sometimes it's not so easy to
dissolve beliefs and unconscious patterns&hellip;?*

Precious friend, if you contemplate well what I've shared with you, I have
already answered that question: by simply bringing honesty to things that you
do. It's as if you were watching a curious movie. As you watch yourself go
through the day, just watch. It is not that difficult to perceive what have
been unconscious patterns. It requires only honesty and the willingness that a
different voice teach you what is appropriate, and then bring correction to it. 

How do you dissolve a set of inappropriate belief systems so that you can adopt
a new one? To do that you must assume that the mind can choose the belief
system that is appropriate for it. This age is not about seeking. It is about
trusting and allowing totally the wisdom that is already in you to come to
ascendancy. Often the mind will say, "This set of beliefs is not appropriate
for me so, therefore, I need to get rid of it and I need to adopt this other
set of beliefs that I've just recently learned about,” because the mind
perceives that by so doing it will gain some good for itself. 

That level of the mind does not know what is good for it. It is called setting
aside the lower self and trusting the Higher Self to teach it what it is good
for. I would ask you then, precious friend, to shift your perception from
wanting to know how to dissolve one belief system and how to stick in another
one, to merely focusing on the desire to awaken from every last trace of
perception or belief that you've ever been separate from God. For the need to
adopt and adapt yourself to a belief system is already a sign that you are not
quite willing to trust that the guidance of grace is available to you in each
moment. Each moment can be new and fresh. 

As you go through your day, merely begin by acknowledging in the morning that
you want to be shown those things that are unconscious in your life that are
limiting the expression of Christ through you. You do not need to seek them
out. They will be revealed to you. As they are revealed to you, acknowledge
them and then ask of what I would call the Holy Spirit to bring the correction
to your mind that will effect the appropriate change for you. Do you see how
that's different than doing it on your own? It's very, very important. Are you
willing to give that a try? 

*Thank you.* 

Did that help everyone else? 

*Yes.* 

It's a very important question. It is all too easy, you see, "Well, well, I'm
just not getting enlightened but ah, there's this group over there. I'll run
over there, and I know if I adopt those techniques, then I'll get it." The only
technique that brings enlightenment, if you will, is the one that says,
"There's a part of me that is enlightened already. All I have to do is get out
of the way. And I do that by asking of the Holy Spirit, the Higher Self” — the
part of that wholeness in your own mind that always knows — to ask it in this
moment, "What is it that hinders me from expressing the fullness of the Love of
Christ?" It will not be hidden from you. And then to say, "I am willing to be
taught anew." 

Because you are one with God already, you need only give to the Holy Spirit
your willingness — just your willingness — and correction will come naturally
and effortlessly and gently. 

Does that help? 

*Yes.* 

Good. 

*Jeshua, I'm from another island, a rather larger island than this one. I'm from
Australia. I, like you, have chosen to do a rather nice job on this planet and
I'd like to address that someday and maybe change the focus a little. One of
the things that's come to me to ask this question is, you mentioned the
technology aspect. What I'm doing is setting up a world network. It's really a
new paradigm for life, the foundation for a new society, and the name I've been
given to put to this work for this idea is "World Harmony." Now, amongst what
I'm doing, many people working with me, is the&hellip;*

And there will be many more. 

*Yes, I'm certain. In a way, it's the notion of perhaps getting people to join
together in unison to work together to resolve some of the problems that we
have created, one of which is the pollution factor. Now, when we are talking
about pollution, we are talking about the air, the water and the land, and the
technologies that have already been given are sufficient, I feel, to already
resolve these problems. The big job I have to do is to put that together in a
way where we can bring all the people together from all walks of life,
including governments, including U.N.'s, including the fossil fuel companies,
including the environmentalists and anybody else who might be involved,
together to reach an agreement to eventually do this — to create the shift that
will need to do it — and the plan is forming and I would like to meet with you,
please, for some help. It is a big job and sometimes I certainly need that
help.*

I want first to say to you: it is not so much that you need to ask for help but
to remind yourself that help is already given unto you, and the process that
you are talking about is well under way in, shall we say, the cosmic laboratory
and there are many who are fulfilling roles similar to yours except they don't
happen to have bodies. That is, there is much of what you would know in your
world as a network or a networking being created. There are many unseen friends
who are assisting in many, many ways. Many of the leaders of your world,
especially in the areas of technologies, more so than in the area of your
politics, are being visited much more frequently — and this is going to
continue to accelerate — being visited in their dreams, in the space between
their thoughts when they finally relax enough. Certain visions are beginning to
be born and shared by many minds, beyond&hellip;a little bit beyond the embryonic
state. 

*What, what puzzles me is, I've met so many of these people — so many of these
technology people who are doing things — and we are primarily focusing on free
energies. When I say that, I am not talking about solar, but I am talking about
totally new concepts of energy. Water, for instance. And there are others who
are working with the electromagnetic field of the Earth to produce all of the
electricity we need and want without polluting the planet. Now, what seems to
be happening is, these people who get these, that they seem to work for a while
and then they stop working. It’s almost like the time hasn't arrived yet for
them, maybe the perception I'm getting. "Okay, I need to get this in place so
that they can happen and then they will manifest." Is that correct or am I
doing this backwards?*

As you know, part of what you are being asked to do is to help educate those in
the old paradigms so that they can release their fears about the new. Now, the
reason why some of these devices seem to stop working is directly related to
the reluctance of the group mind to accept that these things could become what
you would call a reality. 

Now, that is what's going to be changed, and that's what I was actually
addressing by visitations that are going on. I'm talking here specifically
about those who would resist change — those who are most fearful of change
although they happen to hold rather powerful positions. There is healing going
on in their minds so that they can begin to entertain that change can occur
without the need to fear loss. That which opens the mind to safety is looking
at alternatives — not just alternatives, but whole new ways of doing things. As
that energy begins to shift in the group mind, you'll then find that these
technologies not only crop up all over the place but that they work and they
sustain themselves, and that the network of those who are receiving these ideas
becomes stronger and stronger and closer and closer. It's like a quickening
going on in the collective mind of those involved with technologies and
controlling the technologies on this planet. 

You are moving wholly in the right direction with what you are doing, and for
now I would simply suggest that you continue to do that with great confidence,
remembering, as you do know, that you are not alone and that uncanny meetings
are going to happen for you at just the right time and just the right place.
You do have a part to play. It seems like a big job, but remember, you have a
lot of help and it is going to happen. 

Let us work on the unseen planes to shift the perceptions, to help release the
fears, so that as your ideas begin to be shared there is even a greater fertile
field for receiving them. That which you have called the gathering together, at
this point it looks to be closer to about two and a half to three years than on
the shorter side of two. That may be quickened. But rest assured, beloved
friend, it is going to occur. 

Yes. It's all unfolding quite beautifully. From my perspective you could say
that we are all quite happy with the progress. 

*What personally do I need to do for my own personal growth?* 

Nothing. 

*Thank you.*

Except love. 

*Of course.* 

*Jeshua, I keep having the feeling that I am going to be leaving here&hellip;. Is
this to be for me, and if so, is there going to be a replacement for me here,
in this home?*

Why are you asking me about that which you already know? 

Yes, you are leaving. Remember that when you follow that guidance — and you
know that's where it's coming from; it's not like a knee-jerk reaction — rest
assured that that which flows from that kind of internal guidance always serves
the highest and best for all involved. I know that's a short and sweet answer
but it's really to the point. 

Yes, you will most probably be going to be leaving, mid-year, perhaps just a
little bit slightly after that. 

*Can you give me an idea as to when I can expect to enjoy good health?* 

This will begin to transpire for you certainly after, soon after your
departure. 

*Thank you.* 

*Jeshua, I have two unrelated questions. The first one is: how can I mend this
situation where ego got in the way? I broke my own highest ethic and having
injured deeply, one of my friends.*

Now, to the first question: you cannot fix or amend anything. You can forgive
yourself. You can allow the lesson to be learned. You can extend in wisdom the
recognition to the other of your understanding of what has transpired and what
you, shall we say, failed in this regard. You can ask for forgiveness, if you
will, most importantly to share your deep recognition of your understanding of
the situation itself and the choice that you made. 

Understand, you cannot fix or mend anything at any time. The only thing that
you can do is to give the past over to what I have called the Holy Spirit.
Extend your forgiveness to yourself and ask for it from others, if that is
appropriate, so that they see and understand your complete recognition of your
understanding of what has taken place. The attempt to fix or mend is the hope
to go back and erase something so that you don't have to wholly own up to
responsibility for it. It is far better just to accept it, to look at it, to
extend forgiveness and to walk on. 

By the way, what you call the injury is not so severe and so deep as you might
perceive. 

*Jeshua, I am another one feeling unsafe, and I would like some assistance in
feeling more safe in my working conditions, and this is in reference to
bringing forth healing technologies in relation to legal requirements and
licensing. I would like to have more comfort and assurance&hellip; to protect myself
in the area.*

Find a different world. 

*Okay, thank you.* 

In other words, beloved friend, you've chosen this life to be involved in this
kind of a drama. It's an important drama, yes, but you have chosen this world
to act it out in, and this is still a world of not only complexities but rather
insane complexities at times. 

Understand that the answer you are really seeking is to be found in your
recognition, in your willingness, to embrace totally the fact that you have
chosen this pathway in life. Your safety will not be found out there, but
rather within. As you choose to remind yourself, when these conflicts come up,
that you have chosen it wholly, that you are safe now and that God is ever
available to you at all times and at any moment, and when you accept also that
you could just as easily walk away from it all and get a job in some little
store in some small town in the middle of Kansas and you'd still be perfectly
okay, you will find that the perception of these things that you are involved
in begins to change and to heal, and that then is going to open a doorway to
deeper guidance and greater, shall we say, creativity and a deepening sense of
safety. 

Does that make sense to you? 

*Thank you.* 

Now, we both know that flexibility has been an issue for you at times. 

*Yes. I’ve been looking for a team to help me bring forth more of the work
and&hellip; How does it look to you? It feels good to me, this&hellip;*

Continue. 

*Continue?* 

Yes. I wouldn't know how better to describe it than what that
simple&hellip;?&hellip;Continue. 

*Thank you.* 

*&hellip;last year when I&hellip;I had to come home and slap myself to find if I was still
here. I thought maybe I had an accident and passed over because people even in
the grocery store would step on me, push me aside as if I weren't there,
wouldn't respond if I spoke. I mean, how can these things be?*

The question asked properly is, how can any of this be? 

The body is not quite real. The shared perception of its solidity is nothing
more than a shared hallucination. Now, you, again have chosen, shall we say, to
move it to other realms at times, and your experience was given to you not to
cause discomfort but to show you that indeed the body isn't quite the primary
reality. And, unbeknownst to you, you did have — actually you've had it more
than once — you have the experience because you carry an ancient ability of
shifting the energy of the mind so that you are not, shall we say, present
where the cells of the body are. You have the ability to do what has been
called in other cultures of making yourself invisible. Now, that doesn't mean
that you perceive as being gone, but it does drop the veil, so to speak. It's
almost like a black hole in which there is no light. Others simply aren't aware
of your presence. It creates a blind spot in their awareness to your presence.
It probably won't happen very often any more, especially after your devotional
retreat. 

How can those things happen? Anything can happen because the power of
consciousness can create whatever it chooses to learn and manifest. 

*Jeshua, another couple of questions. I visited&hellip;in England, the New Jerusalem,
and the story is that you, when you were on Earth, visited that area. Is that
so?*

Yes, with Mary Magdalene. 

*The other question is what I'm&hellip;I'm writing a book and I'm halfway through it,
and it's about the principles that we may be now moving into. Now, the title is
something that I would like to get your perspective on. The title I felt.. I'm
not sure&hellip;what it was, the title was "The Third Testament." Is that correct?*

Yes. It came to you rather suddenly, didn't it? 

*It did. It did, but I said it was ego or what. The other thing is that I feel
as though I didn't write it&hellip;*

Yes. Well, you ought to be writing it anonymously… 

*Yes, l am.* 

So, how are we all doing? 

*We are doing fine.* 

So, indeed. We'll take one more question and then it would be time to come
together, wrap the evening up. However, our union will not end nor will the
conversations that I have with you end — though some of you will just get
started. 

*Thank you.* 

*I had a lot of questions when I came in and don't feel I need to ask as many as
l had on my mind, now. The last time I talked to you, I mentioned about living
to about ninety, and if things continue, is that still the same or&hellip;?*

It’s down to thirty-four&hellip; 

{Laughter} 

Beloved friend, understand that for you, what is called the age of the body,
the amount of years that you're going to live this one out, isn't really
subject to too much change one way or the other here. 

*Okay.* 

So, I guess you need to plan well for your future. 

*I'm supposed to meet a companion. Have I even met this person yet? Have I seen
this person? Is it someone I haven't seen at all?*

Let me ask you this — and answer with a certainty of your knowingness. Have you
met that person yet in physical form? 

*I feel I have.* 

Then why are you asking me? 

*I want to be sure.* 

It is a good idea to be sure. Remember, patience means to make power slowly. 

*Now I can ask you anything&hellip; Am I still going in the right direction?*

Beloved friend, each time you choose to love yourself and to remember your
worthiness, each time you remember that you hold the power within yourself to,
shall we say, create the frequency, to create the vortex, that attracts like a
magnet to you that which supports your view of yourself that’s being birthed
within you, yes, you are moving in the right direction. Let not fear dictate
your choice, but let the vision of yourself as the holy Child of God, worthy of
Love and respect, of creativity and fun and joy and fulfillment, let that be
your guide in all things and settle for nothing less. Move in the direction of
Love: love of self, love of God, love of life. Move in that direction, beloved
friend, and turn not back to look behind you.

Yes, you are moving in the right direction. Is it not the direction of loving
yourself?

*Sure. Will l become more at peace with&hellip;?* 

Yes. Will you let me help you? 

*Yes. Will it happen soon?* 

Yes. Precious friend, never fail to give me your pain when it overwhelms you.
Fair enough? 

*Yes. {Sobbing} I love you.* 

*I have one more thing. I want to have more dreams with Dave and stuff. Will it
happen?*

As you go into your sleep state, do so without the sense of struggle or a sense
of reaching or striving to make that happen. But go gently into your sleep with
the knowingness that all minds are joined in Love. Hold the image of that one
lovingly in your mind, not holding in the sense of a rigid holding, but a
gentle nurturing awareness with a smile upon your lips. Gently go off to sleep
and indeed the connection will occur in what you call a dream state. 

See, beloved friend, in your desire to make it happen or really wanting it, you
almost kind of strangled it out of you at times. You see, the resistance&hellip;
you've created a tension about it. Go into it very relaxed. It's called
allowing. 

*Okay.* 

So, how are we all doing now? 

*A simple observation: there are twelve people in your audience.* 

Seems to happen sometimes. Yes. 

So, for those of you that have stuck around, understand what that means.
Understand the choices that you are already making within the soul, within your
lives. Know always that I love you. Know that you are loved wholly. You cannot
be separate from God and, therefore, you cannot be separate from me. I am
indeed your friend and your brother. It's perfectly okay to ring me up now and
then. Indeed, I will always have the time to abide with you. You are the Light
of the world. Teach, then, only Love, for that is what you are. 

Peace be unto you always, even unto the end of this age. It comes far more
quickly than you can imagine. Go, then, in peace. 

Amen.

