---
title: "Lesson One"
---

Now, we begin.

And indeed, once again, greetings unto you, beloved and holy friends. I
come forth in this hour, yet again, to abide with you where you believe
yourself to be. For in Truth, if it were not for the fact that you are
choosing to turn your attention to the world of physicality through the
vehicle of the body, our communication would not require the device of
what you might call “channeling,” nor the devices of the technologies of
this world in which to record and capture spoken words that are
themselves but the reflection of what the words would point your mind
toward.

Therefore, beloved friends, I come not for myself, but for you. I come
not to teach you, but to love you, until you choose, from the depth
within your own being, to set aside every illusion you have ever given
credence to, and to remember the Truth which alone is true. For indeed,
in that hour, there is a transcendence of all that knows limitation.
There is a transcendence of all that knows coming and going, birth and
death. There is but the Mind of Christ within which each of us, as a
spark of Divine Light, as a sunbeam to the sun, rests eternally in
perfect communion and communication, always. Now of course, the great
secret is that, that is the state of your reality. That in each and
every moment, you abide in perfect communion with the whole of creation,
since all things are but temporary modifications of the one fundamental
energy which I have chosen to call the Christ Mind, the offspring of the
Father.

And so, beloved friends, I come to where you choose to be. And if you
would choose to open that place within the heart and within the mind in
which you can communicate with me directly, I will meet you there as
well.

What is important, then, by way of our beginning, is to consider
the simple fact that your experience is always the effect of where you
choose to focus the attention of your consciousness, its Self being
unlimited forever, embracing all the many dimensions of creation. You
abide in that which embraces all things, in all ways, and at all times.
And in Truth, you do not know separation, birth or death, gain or loss.

In this hour, as you have taken the tape from its envelope and put it
into your machinery, recognize how you, as an infinite being, have
deliberately chosen to participate in a form of experience. You have,
therefore, called to yourself the sensory apparatus of the body through
which to filter the energies of this physical domain, that you might
hear vibrations against vocal chords that create words that carry
certain meanings for each and every one of you. And each and every one
of you will color that meaning according — according — to the
perceptions that you have chosen to place value upon.

Does this mean that some are ahead and some behind? It only seems that
way. In reality, each of you is equal; each of you, choosing from your
infinite freedom to attract to yourself certain vibrational frequencies,
if you will — certain forms or qualities of experience. That freedom is
what you abide in always, from before the foundations of this world, and
long after this world ceases to be. In each and every moment, then, you
cannot be a victim of what you see, and nothing is outside of you. What
you experience you have directly and deliberately called to yourself.
And if you hold the thought that, “Well, I don't like what I've called
to myself,” that's perfectly okay, too. For then, you have called to
yourself the experience of being in judgment of yourself. Merely look
with the wonder of a child and see what it feels like and ask yourself,

> Is this an energy I wish to continue in, or would I choose something
> else?

For ultimately, when all possible choices within the dream of separation
have been made, have been tasted, have been felt, have been known, then
finally there emerges the still, quiet Voice of Spirit that speaks
through the soul — and we'll come back to that — whispering of the one
Truth and the one reality, the one Love, the one peace, the one bliss
that is continual.

Then, the soul begins to turn from the things of this created world. It
begins to withdraw its attention, as it were, from its attachments to
all of the things it has called to itself. It begins to transcend its
sense of identification with the vibrational frequencies it had only
meant to play with, and then took seriously. For it is seriousness
within the mind which is the creation of ego, and it is great
seriousness that holds the vibrations of what you would no longer
experience within the field of your being, within the field of your
soul.

And as you, as the soul — the individual divine spark — begins to choose
to withdraw the attention, to withdraw the value you have placed upon
all things, and as you learn to simplify the nature of your own
consciousness, as you begin to realize that you can surrender into
something that seems beyond you, that you can entertain the insane
thought of trusting the invisible, you come more and more to be less and
less. And as you become less and less of what you thought you were,
conversely, you become more and more of what your Father created you to
be — *the Thought of Perfect Love in form*, a channel, a simple vehicle
through which that Love of Spirit can shine forth. And your only task
becomes the cleaning of your windows, the polishing of your floors, the
weeding of your garden, so that *that* Light can pour forth unimpeded.

No longer will you find the need to defend perceptions you had
*identified* with in error. And you will, indeed, know when you have come
to that state of awakening, for you will be able to look upon all
created things that you have ever experienced, all reactions you have
ever held within the mind, all perceptions, all judgments, all desires
that you have ever held for anyone or anything, and as they arise in
your mind, they will not disturb your peace. And you will smile. And you
will see that within your consciousness has arisen all saintlihood and
all devilishness. You have been both saint and sinner, and your
happiness and your unhappiness has been merely an effect of where you
would choose to place your attention.

Indeed, beloved friends, I come forth to meet you wherever you are,
because I have chosen to use the infinite power of consciousness, given
me of the Father, as equally as it is given unto you, to discover how
deep delight can be when the mind is focused only on seeing from, and
seeing only, the Mind of Christ. I have, therefore, called to my Self
all multitude of experiences, even when I walked upon your beloved Earth
as a man — in order to challenge myself, in order to test myself, in
order to condition myself, to rise above, to transcend all possible
experiences that could distract me from the remembrance of who I am.

You could say, by the way, that my crucifixion was simply the climax of
my own direct choice to be challenged by the events of space and time,
so that I could cultivate, within myself, the ability to see from, and
to see only, the perfect purity of the Mind of Christ.

The point that I'm seeking to make with you is that, in each and every
moment, what you are experiencing in the realm of your emotions and
mind, and the effects, to a latter degree, within the body, are there
because you — from your infinite freedom — have simply selected that
experience, that energy, to focus your attention on, so that you can see
what the effects are.

The insanity, you see, does not come from having chosen to see something
other than the Mind of Christ. The insanity, which you experience as
your pain and as your suffering and your seeking and your dramas, comes
only from your mistaken choice to become identified with what arises in
the field of your awareness. You, therefore, lose the sight of
innocence. For, indeed, all events are perfectly neutral, and you are
free to see them any way you want.

When a child is born — and many of you who are mothers know this — you
can experience a depth of joy that is unspeakable. Likewise, you can
also experience fear and contraction at the thought of having to be
responsible for a child. When a loved one dies, and you experience grief
and suffering, rest assured it is because you have chosen to contract
your attention, so that all you can see is the loss of an animated body,
and thereby convince yourself that you have become separated from the
loved one.

I speak from experience when I share with you that separation is an
illusion. And when death occurs in your plane, in that very moment, you
still have the power to choose to recognize that something has changed,
and to shift your attention to a different faculty that the body could
never possibly contain, in which you perceive and hear and communicate
with that spark of Divine Light — the soul — that seems to have given up
the idea of trying to keep a physical form animated.

It is, therefore, imperative and, in fact, it is the very first step on
what we are going to begin to call *The Way of the Heart*. The first step
in awakening is to allow into the mind the thought, the axiom, the
Truth, that *nothing which you are experiencing is caused by anything
outside of you*. You experience only the effects of your own choice.

For you see, during this coming year, we will be building, month by
month, on what I'm choosing now to call *The Way of the Heart*. It is the
way unknown to the world. It is a way unknown to many that would call
themselves spiritual teachers, for it is not a way of resting on, or
becoming dependent on, magical means. It is, rather, that pathway which
cultivates within you the decision to turn your attention upon your own
mind, upon your own behavior, upon what is true and real for you, moment
to moment — to study it, to consider it, to feel it, to breathe the
Light of Spirit through it, and to constantly retrain the mind so that
it assumes complete responsibility in each moment.

And why is this necessary? Because, without it, there can be no peace.
Without it, you can not transcend the false identifications that you
have chosen. To use, perhaps, a simpler form of your language, you need
to come to the point where you say to yourself,

> I've done this to myself. I did it, I must correct it. No one is to
> blame. The world is innocent.

And in the coming months, we will be communicating with you more and
more deeply, the finer points, if you will, of *The Way of the Heart*. For
it is that way that was taught to me, and it is that way to which I have
pointed you with many, many clues. It is that way that brings about the
reversal of every thought you have ever had about any one or any thing.
It is that way, alone, which allows you to pass back through the eye of
the needle, and to come to rest in the Perfect Peace from which you have
sprung forth.

*The Way of the Heart* is not the way of the intellect; for, indeed, that
aspect of the mind was never designed to be your master. It was designed
to be the humble, and — if you will pardon the expression — very stupid
servant of the Awakened Heart. The Heart is that which feels all things,
embraces all things, trusts all things, allows all things. The Heart is
that in which the soul rests eternally. The Heart is that which is
beyond space and time and is that spark of Light in the Mind of God,
which is called *Christ*. And only in That will you find the peace that
you seek.

You will discover, then, that the pathway of awakening is not a pathway
of avoidance, but a pathway of truthfulness. It is not a pathway of
accomplishment and pride, but a pathway of releasing from the
consciousness every hope and every wish to be special — to see yourself
as having “made progress,” so that you can pound a fist upon the chest
and spread the tail feathers. It is a transcendence of the hope of
somehow getting God's attention, so that he will look upon you and say,

> Oh, you've been such a good person. Oh, my goodness, yes. Well, I think
> we'll allow you into the Kingdom now.

It is a way in which you will come to cultivate — regardless of your
inner experience or degrees of awakening — to cultivate the willingness
and the art of returning to the simplicity of empty-headedness and
not-knowingness, with each and every breath. It is a way of life in
which all things and all events become an aspect of your meditation and
your prayer, until there is established, once again within you, the
Truth that is true always:

> Not my will, but Thine be done. For of myself, I do nothing. But my
> Father does all things through me.

Imagine, then, a state of being in which you walk through this world,
seemingly appearing like everyone else, and yet, you are spacious
within; you are empty within. In Truth, you desire nothing, though you
allow desire to move through you, and you recognize it as the Voice of
the Father, guiding your personality, your emotions, and even the body,
to the places, to the events, to the people, to the things, to the
experiences through which the tapestry of the Atonement is being woven,
through which all of the Children of God are called home again. And you
trust the complete flow of that, whether you are asked to give a speech
in front of ten thousand people, or you're asked to tell a friend the
truth of your feelings, or whether or not you are, perhaps, asked to
sweep the streets and live penniless. For in Truth, that mind that
*trusts* the Source of its creation allows all things, trusts all things,
embraces all things, and transcends all things.

Rest assured, then, whenever you feel frustration and anxiety, it is
because you have decided not to trust the Truth. And the Truth is simply
this: Only God's plan for salvation can work for you. Your way must
always fail, for your way begins with the illusory and insane assumption
that you are a separate being from the Mind of God and must, therefore,
direct your own course. For if you are sick and diseased and not at
peace, why would you decide that you know how to create peace? It
requires great humility to accept the first step of the path:

> I have done all this; I must undo it. But I have no idea how I did this.
> Therefore, I must surrender to something else.

I want to give you this thought, even as I gave it to this, my beloved
brother, some time ago. And the thought is this (and I would ask that
you consider it well):

What if the very life you are living, and each experience that is coming
to you now, since the moment you decided, “I've got to awaken here” —
what if everything was being directly sent to you of your Father,
because your Father knows what is necessary to unravel within your
consciousness to allow you to awaken? What if the very things you are
resisting are the very stepping stones to your homecoming? What if you
achieved a maturity along this pathway in which you were finally willing
to let things be just as they are?

And if it was necessary to sweep the streets, you simply took a deep
breath and said, “Father, you know the way home,” and therefore began
sweeping. And up into the mind comes the thought,

> Oh, my God, I won't be recognized. I won't stand out. People won't think
> I'm special if I'm just a street sweeper.

And you recognize,

> Ah-ha, no wonder my Father wants me to do this. I've got to flush this
> up so that I can look at it, dis-identify from it, and learn to be the
> presence of Love in the sweeping of the street.

For in Truth, I tell you, the least of these among you, according to
your perception, is already equal to the greatest. And there is none
among you who is less than I am.

And so, *The Way of the Heart* begins there. It begins by accepting the
humility that you've created quite a mess within your consciousness.
You've created a labyrinth and gotten lost within it, and you don't know
the way back — that *of yourself, you can do nothing*. For all you've
managed to achieve is the creation of a whole lot of insane dramas that
are, in Truth, occurring *nowhere* except within the field of your mind.
They are like chimeras, like dreams. In Truth, there is no difference
between a waking state, in which you would be the director of your life,
and the dreams you have when the body sleeps at night. They are both the
same thing.

I wish to direct you to peace, even that peace which forever transcends
the understanding and comprehension of the world. I desire — because my
Father desires it through me — to bring you wholly to where I am, that
you might discover there is someone that got there ahead of you. And
when you look closely, you go,

> Ahhh, it's my Self. I've always been there, but I forgot.

And in the end of all journeying, in the end of all purification — and,
indeed, purification is still necessary — you will discover that to
awaken means to have journeyed nowhere. It means to have arrived at a
goal that has never changed.

Awakening is only remembrance--but it is a remembrance not just of the
intellect; for it is not an idea, as you would understand ideas. It is
an idea that vibrates through the whole field of your beingness, so that
even the cells of the body — while yet the body remains coalesced
together in its present form — even the cells of the body *awaken* and
*relax* into the Truth that is true always.

*The Way of the Heart&hellip;* If you were a gardener, would you not
cultivate the art of weeding your garden? Would you not look to see that
the soil is just the correct dampness? Would you not keep your eye on
the clouds on the horizon and the heat of the day? Would you not cover
the delicate plants that need protection while they grow strong? And if
those that would come would not respect your garden, would you not ask
them to leave, or build a temporary fence until the garden is strong
enough — until it bursts forth with enough fruit so that you can give to
even those who do not respect it?

Be you, therefore, a wise gardener. Cultivate a deep love and respect
for *yourself*, for you are not here to “fix” the world. You are not
here to “fix” your brother or sister. ‘Tis only Love that heals. And
until you have loved *yourself* wholly, by having purified the mind of
every erroneous thought you've ever held &mdash; until you've loved
yourself &mdash; you do not, in Truth, love anyone or anything, save in
those brief moments when you let your guard down and the Love of God
shines forth, through you, so quickly you don't even know what happened.
For the wise gardener cultivates a state of consciousness in which the
Love of God is unimpeded.

Beloved friends — those of you that have elected to answer a call to
participate in this pathway, with this Family — if you would make your
commitment to trusting your Creator for having set before you a pathway
that can, indeed, lead you home, you will, indeed, arrive at home. But
commitment means that you don't get to leave the room when the shouting
begins. The shouting we're speaking of is the shouting within your own
mind, within your own body, within your own emotions. That you will stay
with these things by being honest about them, and loving yourself for
ever having the power to even create such insane perceptions of yourself
and the world around you.

*The Way of the Heart* is the final pathway that any soul can enter. There
are many stages of awakening. There are many pathways that can be
followed, but ultimately, “All roads lead to Rome,” so they say.
Eventually each soul must find its way into *The Way of the Heart*, and
come back to the Truth that it's time to take responsibility, to learn
to cultivate the ability to look upon the deep and vicious blackness of
what I have called ego, which is nothing more than the cesspool of
denial — it is that which lacks Light — and begin to bring Light back to
it by simply observing your own mind, your own behavior, your own
reactions with a sense of wonder, with a sense of innocence, with a
sense of childlikeness.

For is it not written that you must again become a little child to enter
the Kingdom? The little child simply marvels at all that they see:
“Well, how about that?” Can you imagine looking upon the deepest,
darkest parts of your own shadow, your own denials and being able to
say, “Oh, how about that!”? Hmm. Remember, then, that everything is
neutral, and in Truth all that which arises within your consciousness
*has no effect* upon the Truth of your reality.

*The Way of the Heart*, then, is a way of cultivating the decision to
become identified with the Light that can shine away all darkness — not
by fighting with it, but by recognizing it, embracing it as your own
creation, and choosing again. *The Way of the Heart* is the way that I
teach. And now we begin a more focused — shall we say — year-long study,
a year-long cultivation together, that *The Way of the Heart* might become
established within your *holy* mind. And we will be drawing, indeed, upon
many sources. And there may be some surprises according to who may
choose to speak to you through this vehicle.

But rest assured, at all times and in all ways, I have committed myself
to gently directing the birthing and the manifestation of what you have
come to call Shanti Christo. The idea was given by me. And what I give,
I nurture. And what I create, together with you, I do not abandon.
Therefore, you will find that I will be here always. We will have yet to
see whether you will be.

Remember then, always, that the Truth is true always. Is it not time,
beloved friends, to truly step into ownership of your only reality? *The
Way of the Heart* does not know the word *avoidance*. *The Way of the Heart*
does not know deception, manipulation, or control. *The Way of the Heart*
does not know blame, although it watches these things arise as echoes of
old patterns now outgrown. It learns to see them, to recognize them,
like you might recognize certain kinds of clouds that pass through the
sky, and then to turn the attention of the mind, that a new choice might
be made.

*The Way of the Heart* is the way that calls you home. And the call comes
from that deep part of your soul that is still like unto the Spirit,
which abides as Christ in the Holy Mind of God. Trust, then, that you
are as a sunbeam to the sun. And trust not the perceptions you have
cultivated in error. For you are not alone on the way that you journey,
and you journey not apart from your brothers and sisters. This Family
cannot know separation, though some may seem to come and go. For once
the call to awaken through *this* lineage has been acknowledged, though
bodies may not communicate in space and time, rest assured,
communication remains, and there is no way to avoid it.

And so, we begin *The Way of the Heart*. We enter, now, a stage where it's
time to stop listening out of polite kindness or out of curiosity, and
to step into the willingness to don the mantle of that one *committed to
healing every obstacle to the presence of Love* that may yet remain
secretly hidden in the depth of that part of your mind which would
struggle to be separate from God, and to remember that you are truly the
Light that can come to shine, lovingly, upon every aspect of darkness
you have known.

So along this pathway this year, you are going to learn how to shake
hands with the devil, and to do a little jig with him, and recognize his
face to be your own. For when you can dance with the darkness that you
have created, that darkness is transformed into an angel. And Light
abides with Light.

We will be giving you, and bringing forth, certain meditations, if you
will, certain energetic practices to help cultivate within you a quality
of *feeling* that will allow you to recognize energies that do not serve
you, in a way that transcends what your mind may choose to think of
these energies, so that you learn more and more to lead with the body,
if you will, to lead with your feeling nature, not your intellect. For
your intellect does not know anything except the trivialities that you
have shoved into it, like garbage into a garbage can. The intellect can
*never* bring the healing of the Heart that *is* the Atonement. It can only
be utilized to argue against the insane perceptions you are used to, so
that you might come to see that perhaps there is a greater good in
giving up your insistence on treating the intellect as your god.

Therefore, indeed, beloved friends, dance often, rejoice, play often. Let
this year be that year in which you bring up within yourself everything
unworthy of the Mind of Christ — every thought of scarcity, every sense
of unworthiness, every fear. Let them come up, look at them, embrace
them, transmute them through your own love of self and through your
honesty. Accept where you are and don't pretend to be otherwise, for the
wisest are always the humblest.

Be you, therefore, at peace, beloved friends. Be you, therefore, at
peace in all things. For we delight — and I speak here of the many “we”
who are in what you might call a disembodied state, who are electing to
participate with you that are asking to be helped this year, through
this way. We delight in joining with you! We delight in loving you! We
delight in waiting on you to welcome your Self home!

Therefore, indeed, we will begin to end this message of this hour now.
But as we close, I would ask that you would close your eyes for just a
moment and take a deep breath into the body and let it go. And as the
breath leaves the body, hold the thought that there is nothing worth
holding onto any longer that keeps your peace and happiness at arm's
length. Become committed — become *fully* committed — to the experience of
happiness, even as you've been fully committed to unhappiness, and
limitation, and lack. Give your Creator full permission this year to
sweep the basement clean. There really isn't anything down there worth
defending or protecting.

And it will come to pass that you will know the perfect peace of
empty-headedness, not-knowingness. You will know what it means to be
relieved of time and to be comforted by what is eternal.

Peace be unto you always. And never once let yourself think that you are
alone. It is what they call — what is this word you have — “haberdash.”
Hmm. What is this haberdash? That is an interesting term. It is nonsense
for you to think that I'm not with you. You have asked. I picked up the
phone. We are in communication. That is the way it is. That is the way
it will be until the end of all illusion.

Amen.

---

## Question One

[*Question One*](/t/wom/woh/l01/q1/): What motivates you? How does an
enlightened person move throughout his or her day? Apparently you have
moved into a state of Oneness with Source, yet you still have a
distinct, unique personality.  You are still a Self, yet you are also
One with God. Can you describe what this state is like for us?
{: .omit}

---

## Question Two

[*Question Two*](/t/wom/woh/l01/q2/): Would you please comment on the
world of sexuality and sexual expression for those of us committed to a
path of spiritual evolution?
{: .omit}

---

## Question Three

[*Question Three*](/t/wom/woh/l01/q3/): I understand healing as
Jeshua speaks of it in *A Course in Miracles*, yet what needs to occur
for bodily symptoms to no longer be in one’s experience?
{: .omit}

