---
title: "Lesson Seven"
---

Now, we begin.

Forever, I am with you. *Forever, I am with you.* For long before the
stars were birthed, long before the planets arose, long before even a
thought of physicality had emerged within the Divine Mind of the Son of
God, we were already created together and equally. And yet, that
Creation of what alone is real knows no point of birth. Therefore,
because the Father is forever, so too, have we abided together, held
together, sustained together, in Love. And throughout all time and even
unto eternity do we abide together in the reality of Who we are.
Therefore, think it not extraordinary when I say unto you,

> I am with you always, even unto the end of this age.

What journey have *you* ever taken that is not familiar to *me*? What
journey have *I ever* taken that is, in Truth, not familiar to *you*? For
when you look upon me and from some deep place of knowingness within,
though the words may be different, you say within yourself,

> Behold! Christ appears before me.

... when you hold a thought of me in the mind, and the body is flooded with
emotion, soft and gentle and light, and you recognize that the holy Son
of God was birthed, perfected in your friend, even one Jeshua ben
Joseph, what is it within you that *knows* that this is the Truth? What
part of your mind, what capacity within your heart can look upon me and
recognize the Truth within me, so that you love me? For I say well unto
you, it is equal and the same as that part of *my* mind, that part of my
heart that looks upon you and says,

> Behold! The holy Child of God is before me. And I love this one.

That which knows, that which comprehends immediately, is the Mind of
Christ, that recognizes Itself in each and every one. That Mind of
Christ dwells within you in its fullness *now*! And, therefore, as I have
said unto you many times, never fail to remember that it takes one to
know one. And if you would look upon me and say, “Beloved friend, thank
you,” look well upon yourself and say, “Beloved friend, thank you.”
Indeed, allow the breath to flow.

How many journeys have there been? Hm! How many moments of experience
passed under the bridge of your beingness, so to speak, before you first
began to reawaken to the Truth that is true always? How many life times,
how many worlds, before a Light began to dawn — so imperceptibly at
first that it was not recognized? And a tiny voice whispered from a
place that seemed so far removed from where you dwelt,

> Beloved Son, you are with Me now. You remain as I have created you to
> be. Therefore, be at peace. You are loved.

And the voice seemed so far away, so faint, that surely, it could not be
your own. Surely, it was just a moment’s fantasy. And in the midst of
some journey, you paused. And as a raindrop fell and hit a leaf, and
your eyes looked upon that experience [snaps fingers], you felt and knew
that you were one with the leaf and the raindrop, and that, indeed, you
were those things. How many moments of experience passed by before these
kinds of qualities began to emerge in your consciousness, as what seemed
to be tiny mad ideas?

> My God, I just felt myself to be one with all of Creation. Well, better
> not tell anyone about that.

Hmm ... and off you went.

But the moments began to come more often, still perhaps fleetingly, and
yet now more familiar — a sense underneath all of the drama, all of the
crying, all of the lamenting, all of the resenting, all of the fearing,
all of the striving, all of the seeking. The still tiny Voice would come
and say,

> Beloved Son, you remain as I have created you to be. You are loved. You
> are wholly loving and wholly lovable forever.

The tiny Voice would still steal through the roar and the din that had
seemed to make a home within your mind. And rest assured, you would not
be where you appear to be in this moment, if you had not already begun
to experience many moments that express the quality that I’ve just
described to you, of truly hearing the still, small Voice of the
Comforter within.

Therefore, indeed, each of you knows that there is a longing within you
that *cannot* and *will not* any longer be denied. You *know*, from the Christ
within you, that Christ has stirred within you, and is rising to take up
its rightful place as the Master of your mind and your heart and your
body and your breath and your dreams and your passions! And each of you
knows that it is absolutely futile to attempt to settle for anything
less. And if there be anyone here, in this moment, who actually and
truthfully doubts what I’ve just said, speak up. And so, silence is all
the evidence we require.

It does not come because of anything I have ever done *for* you. It comes
because it *must* come. It must arise within each created mind, regardless
of its journeys, regardless of its attempts to deny what is eternally
true. That’s called *the illusion of the dream of separation*. It must
come and it is inevitable because Christ will not be denied. Christ
*cannot* be denied because only Christ can express what is absolutely
true.

Only Christ can so *in*form the cellular structure of the body that even
the simplest of gestures extends Love unto another who beholds it. Only
Christ knows how to breathe the breath that releases all trauma, all
hurt. Only Christ understands the power of true forgiveness, which is
always, by the way, forgiveness of one’s self, since no one has wronged
you at any time. Only Christ can bring a smile to the lips of a body,
such that when another looks upon you and sees that smile, their heart
is filled. Only Christ can walk in this world, yet not be of the world.
And only Christ can transcend every limited and fearful creation into
the beautiful flower that blossoms and gives its sweet fragrance to all
of Creation. And is it not that which you long to feel moving through
your beingness? Is not that call to awaken alive within you? Oh, beloved
friends, you know that it is!

*Love you, therefore, one another.* And love you, therefore, the Self that
has been given unto you of the Father. Learn to hear *only* that Voice,
learn to desire *only* that Voice. Learn to follow only that Voice that
knows the Truth is true always:

> I and my Father are One. And this world is but a passing shimmer and a
> dream. It holds no value save that which Christ can bring to it. Only
> Love is real. And anything else is the choice to momentarily believe in
> illusion.

And, oh rest assured, illusion within an illusory world can seem to hold
great power. But all power has been given unto you. All power under
Heaven and Earth is given unto the holy Child of God. And that power
dwells within you as the Life of your life, the Breath of your breath,
the Truth of your truth, the Beingness of your beingness, and the Joy of
your joy. And there has never been an illusory creation that has ever,
in Truth, threatened it. And no illusion can take reality from you.

The only thing that can occur is that you use that power to believe in
loss. And all forms of loss that you perceive through the physical eyes,
or through the worldly mind, are nothing more than passing shades of
your insistence on believing that loss is possible. All forms of the
contraction known as fear are nothing more than temporary modifications
of the very power given unto you, a power that you have sought to use to
see if it were possible to convince yourself that something besides Love
is real.

But the story is over. The dream of separation is ending. The whole of
Creation is now experiencing a growing power, if you will, a movement, a
momentum that must carry the Mind, from which Creation springs, to a new
level, if you will. It’s not so much an evolutionary level as a level of
*re-cognition*, a level of *re-membrance*, a level of *re-turning*. And that
wave of momentum is alive and has already arisen within your heart and
mind. You know it. Stop denying it. Stop questioning it. Stop looking
for signs from the world around you that it’s okay to feel it. *Accept it*
as a divine gift from your Creator. For the call has gone out. And
though many listen, few hear, and fewer still become wholly devoted to
responding.

Therefore, let your prayer be always:

> May Christ, alone, dwell within and as this creation that I once thought
> was myself.

> May Christ, alone, inform each thought and each breath and each choice.
> May Love direct each step.

> May Love transform this journey, through time, that in time, I might
> truly know the reality of eternity, the sanctity of peace, the holiness
> — the holiness — of intimacy, the joy of the Father’s Love, prior to
> every breath and, indeed, even prior to every thought that arises within
> the mind.

For when you know that you are Holiness Itself, how could you ever look
upon your brother or sister and believe that they have wronged you? How
could you ever want to do anything but love them? That is, let the Love
of Christ flow through you so deeply and so profoundly that they get
that you do not believe their illusion.

For when you give unto another that which alone is true, because all
minds are joined, you have offered unto them the only gift that holds
value. When you give another the Truth, perhaps even without saying a
word, again because all minds are joined, they recognize what has been
offered:

> The one before me knows the Truth of me and is looking right through
> every one of my attempts to be less than who I am. Therefore, I see that
> it’s safe to choose again.

And that is when miracles occur.

Do not strive to heal this world. Do not do anything to make a show of
how much you love another. Give up the concept of being a busy bee. And
simply *be* the presence of Love, simply because you *know* that there is
absolutely no value in being anything else, and that, in Truth, you have
never succeeded at being anything but the presence of Love.

Each sane moment that you’ve experienced, each moment of unlimitedness,
each moment of genuine intimacy, each moment of grace-filled joy that
you’ve ever known, in whatever form it seems to appear or be bottled
before you, has come because you’ve allowed your mind to slip into the
Sea of Peace. And you’ve merely abided, empty, wanting nothing, seeking
nothing, merely the presence of what you are. And when that quality
becomes cultivated so that it permeates your consciousness with each
breath and with each moment, you will know that Christ has, indeed,
arisen this day. And you’ll celebrate Easter with each breath.

What, then, could ever possibly arise to obstruct the Truth that is true
always? There is an ancient forest somewhere on your planet. A forest,
high in a rugged mountain valley, so rugged that no one has ever been
there. Unknown to the minds of humanity, life goes on in the forest.
Deep within the heart of this forest, this morning, a little tiny blade
of grass seemed to be tossed by an unseen wind. And as it was tossed for
just a fragment of a moment, so subtle and soft was this wind, that as
the sunlight played against this blade of grass, it cast the smallest of
conceivable shadows on a stone that lay just a little bit away from the
blade of grass.

No one noticed. The shadow had no effect. The rock didn’t even notice.
No one on the planet noticed. No one in any of the heavens noticed,
except me — I needed something to build a story around. That tiny
shadow, cast by a little blade of grass momentarily wiggled in a wind in
some remote forest, has virtually no effect on the turning of the
planets, the creation of new suns, and certainly not one trace of effect
on how deeply your Father loves you.

That little shadow is what you have given power to. And it seems to be
able to obstruct the Truth within you from being lived. For the moment,
you gave that little tiny shadow power. And that very moment, fear was
born. And fear is always a contraction away from Love. And fear makes
you smaller than the blade of grass that momentarily seems to cast a
shadow and, therefore, obstructs your recognition of the warmth of the
sun that bathes you *always*.

And when you resist healing — when you struggle to do what, as we have
been observing you here do, learning to ‘speak your truth’ — when you
resist healing in these ways, you may rest assured, that something has
occurred just prior to that. And it is your decision to believe that the
shadow is all-powerful, and that if you heal, if you grow, if you
change, if you let Christ live in you, that that little blade of grass,
and the little tiny shadow it creates for a very temporary moment, will
come and punish you and crush you.

And if you can truly take this story into your being and recognize the
*utter laughability* of such a belief, you will never again *fear* fear. You
will never again allow fear to master you and direct the course of your
life. You will, indeed, learn what it means to trust what is birthed in
the Heart. And you will arise and you will go forth without fear — with
no story at all. And you will accomplish whatever creativity wishes to
express through you. And the whole while you’ll know that of yourself
you do nothing, but the Father, through you, can do anything. Therefore,
indeed, what forms of the shadow of that blade of grass are you allowing
to run and own and possess your soul? Hmm! An interesting question.

There are many forms of that shadow, are there not? There are peers and
parents and siblings to please. And there are governments to bow down
before. There are mates and children that must come first. There are
bills to pay. There are desires to check and keep in order. Hmm! There
are activities and statements and behaviors, done by others, that
require at least seven or eight hours a day for you to analyze and judge
them to death:

> My, this world is exhausting. But somebody has to do it.

And you thought it was Love that makes the world go around? Trust me,
Love does not spin and get nowhere.

Love created you. Love birthed within you as an individual, at least
within the dance of time and space, the *power* to choose, the *power* to
feel, the *power* to know, the *power* to channel Light and Love, the *power*
to know that something exists within and *as you*, that’s what Love has
done! And has fear ever created anything remotely like that?

So what do you want — creation or mimicry, peace or the ability to
simply drug yourself with triviality? All power under Heaven and Earth
flowing through you with every breath so that your consciousness
witnesses to what you do as the maker or doer, but that which the
Divine is doing through you in each moment — so that you get to marvel
at the creativity of Love, the very same Love that moves the sun and the
moon and other stars. Now *that’s* a delightful pastime!

And when your life, this one Life (and you only have one Life. You might
have many bodies but you will have one Life), when you give that one
Life wholly (what is this called here — “with the lock, the stock and
the barrel”), when you give it all to being only the presence of
Love&hellip; And if there are any cobwebs in the way of that, lets get
on with it and get them swept out of the way:

> I’ve got better things to do because the whole of Creation is waiting to
> move through me, and I want to be aware of it. I want my experience, my
> lived consciousness, to be blissfully absorbed in observing the flow of
> Love through this mystery&hellip;

... you call the body and dare to call *your* body, as if you have some right
to possess it. Give the body to God. God knows how to use it, you don’t.
When you are in that place, Heaven and Earth will move to become your
servant . . . not until. Send a conflicted message, nobody shows up for
the dance. And when you move into that place, for no other reason than
besides that *you want it*, you will know, because you will *be* the Truth
that sets all things free.

So now you know what the shadow is. Perhaps sometimes you enjoy dancing
with it. The great question is: Are you going to let the shadow lead or
are you going to lead? When your life becomes that — I’m not speaking of
perfection as you would consider this — when your life becomes that
motivation, that attitude, that declaration, and that devotion, then
perfection will be witnessed through you. For perfection is miracle
mindedness in which that which saves time occurs. And when your life
becomes that, when you no longer have any conflicted — what is this
word? — *commitment*, when you no longer have any conflicted commitment in
your beingness, you will know exactly what the result of *my* life was for
me, because you will *be* that.

Yes, I know what you’re worried about:

> Does that mean that when I get really close, I’m going to have to go
> through my final initiation of crucifixion? And if I have to do it, will
> you promise that they at least sterilize the nails? Could I choose the
> day or the hour? I don’t like to get up too early.

Hmm! You already know what crucifixion is all about. You’ve done it to
yourself a million times in ways far worse than a mere nail driven
through the hand that creates a little twinge of pain. Hell is nothing
more than the state of being rutted, or stuck, in the process of
crucifying one’s Self, which is nothing more than the attempt to murder
and destroy what God has created out of Love.

Stop wasting your energy trying to love God. That won’t do it for you.
Stop wasting so much energy trying to learn how to love another. That
won’t do it for you. And for God’s sake, please refrain from all
attempts to get anyone to believe that you love them. Hmm!

Put the whole of your attention on giving up the patterns of belief from
which you have attempted to crucify the Self that God made and placed
within you as your very *awareness* of your existence. Learn to love that
Self beyond all created things. Learn to *nurture* that Self. Learn to
*cultivate* within that Self only that which speaks of joy and Truth, so
that your words and your actions and your very presence always uplifts
another, so that when another walks into the room in which you are
sitting or standing or moving, they feel like a breath of fresh air just
hit them, even if you haven’t lifted a finger.

As long as there is a trace of energy within you in which you are
striving to get from any perceived thing or object around you what you
are sure you lack inside yourself, you can not know the love of Self.
And you can not experience freedom. *Happiness is an inside job.* Hmm!

So then, what happens? You finally get it right and you decide,

> Okay. What’s that little shadow been doing? ... little blade of grass
> ... hmm! Well, let’s take care of that one and that one and that one
> and that one. How many blades of grass and how many shadows are there
> within this beingness that seems to be overlaid over the Self?

Does it matter? You’re busy birthing Christ!

What happens when that really occurs? First, and listen well, *nothing
will be unacceptable to you*.

> Well, but well, but, does that mean if somebody is not a vegetarian that
> they’re still loved? Hmm!

Does that mean if somebody votes for (what is this one — uhh, the man
named after the bird — Quayle), if someone were to vote for Quayle, does
that mean that they’re not insane, that I can love them? Hmm!

Does that mean that someone who seeks power and, therefore, creates a
war and kills five thousand women and children, that I can still look
upon them and not have my Love be disturbed?

Does it mean that whatever arises within this temporary world is really,
truly, literally, not a problem for me any longer, that nothing is
unacceptable?

Yes. It doesn’t mean you condone it. It means it’s no longer
unacceptable. For what you can not accept, you will *judge*. And every
judgment is the attempt to *murder* what you have decided has no right to
be.

Judgment is the opposite of forgiveness. It lives on the side of the
fence with fear. Forgiveness lives on the side of the fence with Love,
and only Love can heal this world. Imagine, then, living in a state of
beingness in which, literally, nothing was unacceptable to you, because
you knew that the Source of your true beingness was far beyond the
limitations of anything created in space and time — that even death,
which has been created out of the contraction known as fear, that not
even death is unacceptable.

When I spoke many months ago to this, my beloved brother, who allows me
to blend with his mind, and said to him, “If you will choose to trust
me, I will show you the way to peace,” I had to wait for his reply. I
could do nothing to take from him the freedom required to become wholly
committed to allowing Christ to be birthed where once a useless illusion
had reigned. And when I said to him (in your understanding of time)
quite some time ago, “I will show you how to become the being out of
which all of Creation is arising so that you will know the Truth that
sets you free,” it raised up within him the most root or fundamental of
fears possible. What is that? It is the last to be overcome: the *fear of
death*. For when you are confronted by the Truth, you know that
everything you have sought to create as a substitute for the Truth must
die. That is why it is said, “The last to be overcome shall be death” —
fear of death. Death is *allowed* that Christ might live.

There is no one in this room — listen carefully — there is *no one* in
this room, and there *shall not at any time be anyone who hears these
words*, to whom I have not spoken that promise unto. I will show you the
way to the Truth that is true always and sets you free. But *only you* can
make the decision to bring the *whole of your being* to that journey. And
all it requires is *this much willingness* — what you call a “smidgen” in
your world.

A smidgen of willingness is all it takes. I know the way home because I
have completed the journey, and I will show you that way. With every
word that I utter, in this form as well as in other forms, my one intent
is to reveal the place within you to yourself that is the presence of
Love that you seek.

What if you chose to actually commit yourself to considering and hearing
what I’m sharing, and return to the innocence of a child, as you
contemplated what it would mean in your life? Rest assured when the
journey to the Kingdom is completed, the journey *within* it begins anew.
And the bliss and the wisdom and the creativity and the laughter and the
friendships, the family, the joy, the serenity, the peace, that has
been, for the most part, as what could only be seen as, surely, an
impossible dream — these things will become your most ordinary state of
being. And yet, none of it can occur through any power that can move
through *me*.

I can guide you, and I can show you the way. And I can walk beside you
on the way that you’ve chosen. And, at times, I can give you my strength
until yours is as certain as mine, by carrying you. But ultimately, you
must *demand* that I put you down so that *your feet* touch the soil of the
Kingdom of Heaven and *you* walk, under *your* strength, *under* your
certainty, beside me. And you will, indeed, find in that day and hour
that I will as often ask you, “How do you think we could do this? What
would you like to create with me?” as you ask it of me. And then,
indeed, we are as brother and brother, sister and brother, friends,
dancing and playing in the Kingdom prepared for us of our Father.

One little shadow cast by a tiny blade of grass is all that seems to
prevent you from coming wholly to where I am. And if you tarry yet a
little longer, it’s okay. You see, you can not prevent me from knowing
the Truth about you and loving you. And when you are *in Love*, when you
are so immersed in simply loving, isn’t it true that you have no sense
of time at all? There’s no sense of effect disturbing your peace. You’re
just, what you call, “swaying to the music.” You are loving, and your
wholeness grows even more holy.

Therefore, indeed, *love one another as I have loved you*. For the Father
has first loved me that I might show you the Truth of what Love is and
the reality of your beingness. And I will not cease in doing this,
regardless of how long you choose to tarry. For Love is, indeed, patient
and kind. Love is not deluded, and Love does not allow delusion. Love
embraces all things, trusts all things, allows all things and knows
perfectly well where it’s going, and never ceases in that journey until
every blade of grass is released from casting shadows, and the whole of
Creation is returned to the Heart of God.

Learn to love your Self and cry out to this world:

> I and my Father are One! Ahh! That is the soil from which I move and
> live and have my beingness. So be it!

And always remember that the Father looked upon His only Creation and
said,

> Behold, it is very good!

And that goodness has a name and it’s your name, and your name, and your
name, and your name, and your name, and your name, and your name and my
name. And behold, it is *very good*! *That Light deserves to shine!*

And so, with that, the message of this hour is given. I believe you can
discern what it is. And yet before you stands the doorway. Will you open
it through the *power* of your choice? For what you experience will reveal
to you what choice you have made this day.

And with that, beloved and holy friends, may peace be with you always.
And may the Truth that is true always shine within your hearts and minds
throughout all ages. And remember, there’s a perfectly good reason why I
keep saying, time and again, I am with you always.

Peace, then, be unto you always.

Amen.

---

## Question One

[*Question One*](/t/wom/woh/l07/q1/): If God wants only me to be
happy and doesn’t require any specific action of me, what does it mean
to be the servant of God? Is there a divine plan for action God would
have us follow, or are the actions given us based wholly upon our
momentary self-perceptions? Do we have to do things here in a particular
way?
{: .omit}

---

## Question Two

[*Question Two*](/t/wom/woh/l07/q2/): What is the difference between
a twin flame and soul mate?  Please describe the importance of bringing
two whole people to a relationship and maintaining uniqueness while
creating synergy.
{: .omit}

---

## Question Three

[*Question Three*](/t/wom/woh/l07/q3/): How can we bring to light
unconscious blocks that keep us from manifesting our heart’s desire?
{: .omit}

---

## Question Four

[*Question Four*](/t/wom/woh/l07/q4/): What is the interplay between
playing out strong attachments, habits, compulsions, addictions, in
order to let them go with gentleness and understanding, or using
discipline and self control to end these attachments?
{: .omit}

---

## Question Five

[*Question Five*](/t/wom/woh/l07/q5/): There are two religious
movements dear to me that I’ve seen growing over the past twenty years.
These are the Christian Pentecostal and the New Age. How have you been
an influence in their growth and development, and how do you feel about
them now? If you had the opportunity to address these groups, what
message would you desire to communicate to them?
{: .omit}

