---
title: "Lesson Eight"
---

Now, we begin.

And as always, once again, greetings unto you, beloved and holy friends.
As always, I come forth as your equal — to abide with you, to walk with
you, to communicate with you — from that Mind and that Heart which we
eternally share as One, that Mind which is alone the reality of our
*shared* Sonship, our shared existence. As always, I come forth in joy and
also with humility. For I cannot join with anyone unless they provide
the space within their consciousness and bid me enter therein.

Therefore, understand well that when I come to abide with you, I come
with a humility born of the recognition of the Great Mystery that has
given you your existence. And that Mystery I have called *Abba*, Father.
And why? You have not come forth from some mechanical, unthinking force.
You have come forth from Pure Intelligence. You have come forth from
Pure Love. You have come forth from a Source beyond all comprehension.
You have come forth from the Radiance of a Light so bright that the
world cannot see it nor contain it. You have come forth from That which,
alone, is eternally real. And because you have come forth from It, you
are One with It, always.

This means that you abide in a relationship — created to Creator,
offspring or child to parent — that is *so intimate*, a bond *so deep*, that
it cannot be broken at any time. As a wave that arises from an ocean
cannot be separated from the ocean itself, so too, in each and every
moment in your experience, do you abide in a union so *powerful*, so
*mysterious*, so *intimate* and *immediate* that the mind cannot comprehend
it.

This union, then, connects you, as the created, with the Mystery beyond
comprehension that contains every drop of wisdom and intelligence
necessary to create consciousness itself. And consciousness, awareness,
the power to be aware, the power to choose — this is what you truly are.
And if this Source, this Mystery, can birth this most fundamental aspect
of Creation, does it not deserve to be called *Abba* or Father, That which
creates like unto Itself? Can you, then, begin to feel, to know, not
just as an intellectual idea but as a *lived reality*, a *knowingness*, that
if you are aware, in this moment, it is because you are One with the
Source of all Creation and cannot be separated from It in any way or at
any time?

<!-- Track t2 -->

Fear (and we have spoken of this many times) is like a contraction. And,
again, if you were to imagine a wave arising from the ocean and then
going into contraction because it thinks it is separated from its
source, that contraction literally squeezes the life, the very flowing
waters, out of that wave. And could that wave possibly continue when its
very life force has been squeezed from it? Does it not then become mere
drops of water fading from view, only to dissolve back into the ocean
itself? And its radiance has been lost, never to be seen again. If it
were possible for the wave of your consciousness to truly have its life
force squeezed out of it, you, too, would fade away as droplets
returning to the ocean, to never be remembered, to never be seen again.

But listen, and listen well: *that* would be death. But in reality, you
are *alive, always*. And even when you have identified yourself with the
great constriction that fear is, your fears have *never* been able to
squeeze out of you the great life force, the great reality, the great
gift, of awareness. You have, therefore, never ceased to be. There has
never been a time that you have not existed and there will never be a
time when you will cease to be.

You are, therefore, very much like a wave that has begun to arise out of
an unseen ocean. And as that wave gains its momentum and moves across
the surface of a planet, so to speak, you are like a wave that is in
continual movement. Moving where? — into a forever extension of your
awareness, itself. Into a forever extension of whatever you choose to
pick up along the way and make a part of your Self; into a forever
extension that will carry you into the experience or the fruits of the
very thoughts you have held onto as your own.

Therefore, understand well: Right now, in this very lived moment,
wherever you are, whatever you are experiencing, all that you see, all
that you feel, all that you know, all that you seek to avoid, all the
things you value and devalue, all things are contained *within* your
awareness. For if they are not found there, they do not exist for you.

Therefore, look upon that which resides within your awareness, within
your consciousness. What are the things that you *know* that you know?
What are the things that you would avoid? What are the feelings that you
have not explored? What are the objects, the people, the places, the
values that you strive for, that seem to thrill even the cells of the
body? What is the body, itself, if not that which arises within your
awareness?

Look at the planet around you. Look at every object in your room. Look
at every thought you choose to think. Look at the perceptions and ideas
that you defend so vociferously. Look at the thoughts, the feelings of
others, that make you cringe or wish to withdraw from. These things
abide within you like the very power or life force of the wave that has
arisen from the ocean. All of these things you have picked up along the
way. And the way has been very long and varied indeed! For if you can
imagine never ceasing to exist, it means that you have been as a *wave of
awareness*, passing through, so it were, every time frame, every
planetary system, every dimension of creation.

And along the way, one thing has remained constant. You have been in
*constant relationship* with *all* of Creation. Oh yes, you may select out a
few people, a few objects, a planet, a dimension, and focus all of your
attention. And attention is nothing more than the decision what you are
going to use the power of your awareness to focus on. And it seems that
you have excluded everything else. That is like an *optical delusion* of
consciousness. While it is very true that you have *selected out* aspects
of Creation to focus your attention on, yet underneath — in the depth of
the wave that is unseen by the physical eye, unseen by what you call
your conscious awareness, your day-to-day mind — you have remained in
perfect communion with *all* of Creation.

You are, therefore, *in relationship* with all created things, and there
is a communication that occurs without ceasing. Imagine being able to
look into the air of your planet and to literally see the radio waves,
the TV waves, all of the electrical waves that keep, again, without
ceasing, bouncing back and forth across your planet. This is what you
swim in daily. Your consciousness pervades this field of vibrations. And
*you* are the one who selects out what you are going to be aware of, what
you are therefore calling into your lived experience. And, therefore,
you select what is going to make an *imprint* upon you.

<!-- Track t3 -->

Imagine, then, a pool of clear, still water. And into it you drop a
solitary pebble. And from the pebble there radiate waves. This is what
is occurring *constantly* in the field of your wave of awareness. And as
you have attracted to yourselves certain persons, places, things,
objects and, above all, thoughts, beliefs, perceptions, you have dropped
them like little pebbles into the still clear pool of your vast and
eternal awareness. And what you experience are the effects, or the
*ripples*, of those pebbles. They literally join with the other ripples
that you’ve created. And as these ripples move out and touch one another
and come back to you, that is the *field of creation* that makes up your
physical, third-dimensional reality.

You are, therefore, never experiencing anything except what you have
chosen to create through your selection of the pebbles that you have
dropped into the field of your awareness. You literally never experience
a solitary thing. You do not experience objects. What you experience is
the *effect* of a thought or a belief in objects. You never experience
another person, for they, themselves, are made up of a whole web of
vibrations.

You could say that each person and each object (to use your language) is
really a field of relationships themselves — unique and seemingly
different from you, but a web of relationships nonetheless. For what
child can be separated from their parents, from their cultural
background, from the unique experiences that they have had as they have
interacted with the webs of relationship that have been around them
since the moment of their conception? What kitten can be separated and
singled out from the matrix of its mother and father? What leaf on a
tree is separate from the temperature of the air, the quality of water
and nutrients that come to it from the very soil of the Earth?
*Everything is a web of relationship.* And all webs are in relationship
with all other webs and they become grander and grander and grander on
*ad infinitum*.

<!-- Track t4 -->

You are, then, a web of relationships, out of which you have selected
*certain* pebbles — whether they be thoughts or perceptions or experiences
— and you have dropped them into the still clear pool of your awareness
in order to create even more ripples. And then you have chosen which
ones will have the greatest value for you. These you *lock in* to your
being and they become your *emotional field*. The emotional field is the
first level of crystallization of the body.

From the emotional field, a further crystallization creates the
appearance of a *physical form*. And it is that which you push around the
planet in your very temporary third-dimensional form of attention, while
all around you, and just beneath the level of your conscious daily
awareness, you remain in communication with all webs of relationship
throughout all dimensions of creation. It is for this reason that an
inspiring thought can come suddenly to you and penetrate your daily
awareness. And you wonder,

> Where did that thought come from?

Or suddenly a picture appears in your mind. It could be of anything — a
man and a woman making love, a man and a man making love, a child
playing in a park, a dolphin, a picture of conflict or war. Where did it
come from? Because you live in perfect communion, and you are like a
grand field of energy in which all webs of relationship are
reverberating constantly, you actually have access to the complete
entirety of Creation. And this entirety is not limited to what’s
occurring *now*, as you understand time. You have available to yourself
everything of which you would call the *past* and the *future*.

These things are available to you at all times. And there is not one of
you who has not experienced this for yourself. Perhaps you suddenly
thought of a friend, and then the telephone rang, and you knew it was
them. It makes no sense in your causal third-dimensional plane, but
because underneath — even though your conscious mind was busy making
breakfast and wondering about which stocks to buy and sell, or which
perfume to put on the body — underneath you remain in perfect communion.
It is why, when there is a deep resonance between friends, separated by
thousands of miles, all of a sudden you know they need *you* to call *them*.
You feel a sense of concern. Maybe they just stubbed their toe, but you
pick up the vibration.

<!-- Track t5 -->

You all live this. You all know this. There is no secret about it. What
I would seek, then, to attract your attention to is this...

One of the pebbles that has been dropped into the field of your
awareness (and this is generally true for virtually everyone involved in
the third-dimensional experience called physicality), one of those
pebbles is this; imagine a sentence being dropped from a vast height,
picking up speed until it strikes the still pool of your awareness and
sends a ripple out, creates a vibration through you. And the sentence is
simply this:

> It is not possible for me to have complete mastery over which pebbles
> are dropped into my awareness. I am at the mercy of the vibrational
> field set up by the ripples of all of the thoughts and webs of
> relationship in which I swim constantly.

That perception is *absolutely true* . . . as long as you choose to
believe it. That perception or belief is *absolutely laughable* and
*powerless* as soon as you choose to acknowledge that this is so. What’s
the point of that? It is simply this: If you would choose to awaken
wholly, if you would choose not just to be a wave that has mysteriously
arisen from the ocean, if you would choose to be more than just another
soul that has arisen from the Mind of God and is, somehow, crashing
about through the universe, it is *absolutely necessary* to own, as your
own, the pebble that drops into the still, clear pool of your awareness
with the thought,

> I am the one who chooses the effects I experience. I, alone, interpret
> all neutral relationships or experiences. I, alone, place the value upon
> objects, things, thoughts, belief systems. I, alone, am the literal
> creator of my moment-to-moment experience.

This, as you can see, changes everything. For never again can you allow
yourself to feel as though you are merely a victim of unconscious
forces. Never again can you look out beyond yourself and *find fault* with
another. Never again can the energy of blame be projected from you to be
*dumped* upon another. Never again can the energy of *judgment* hold sway in
your Holy Mind. This thought, this one singular pebble, dropped into the
still pool of your awareness, is *absolutely essential* if you would
decide to *awaken wholly*. And that is what this hour is about.

<!-- Track t6 -->

For though you would hear the word many times, that is, that which
carries the vibration of Truth, it can be denied as many times as it is
heard. It can be allowed not, or, I should say, you can choose to not
allow it to settle deep into that pool of awareness, so that it affects
every drop of water that makes up the wave that you are. You can hold on
to the hope that you are still a victim of the world that you see, that
events hold some value in themselves that does not come from what you
place upon it. And as long as you *choose* to deny the word, you cannot
be set free.

For the mind that chooses, in even a small part, to perceive itself as a
*victim* of its world of experience, remains power-less, remains in a
state that generates frustration, weakness, fear, self-doubt,
unworthiness, suffering, pain, emotional pain of aloneness or separation
from others, lack of fulfillment, and ultimately, the echo of the belief
that you have been squeezed so tightly by fear that you are literally
separated from the Ocean of the Mind of God. *Awareness is all that you
have and all that you are.* Out of your use of it comes all that you
choose to experience.

And out of *that* comes your decision of *how* you will experience what you
have called to yourself. In Truth — and please listen well — no
experience you have ever had has defined you or identified you. No
experience you have ever chosen to create, to call to your self, and
then to value as you valued it, has ever made you higher than or less
than any one else — not even me — though there are many who still need
to believe that I am far beyond them. No experience you have ever had
has proven your unworthiness to be supported, to be loved, by your
Creator.

And, therefore, you remain as you are created to be, a wave filled with
the very selfsame Power as the Ocean Itself, a wave, a soul, a web of
relationship arising from the Holy Mind of God with the momentum to flow
on forever — with the freedom to create by deciding which vibrations you
will allow to settle in and become a part of you, which thoughts you
will defend, which perceptions you will cleave unto.

<!-- Track t7 -->

You are, then, eternally a creator. And this is the one thing that you
have no free will about. You can never decide to be a non-participant in
the very mystery of Creation’s extension. Because when you hold the
thought, “I refuse to participate in God’s Creation,” you have literally
created the perception, and therefore the experience, of yourself as
being outside or separate from Creation itself. You’ve created the
insane emotion of trying to separate the wave from the Ocean Itself. And
you *will* create the perception of separation even though nothing, in
reality, has been affected.

Why is this important? Because you see, the process of healing is not
difficult. It requires only your *willingness to accept* that you are the
*effect* of the Creator’s desire to create like unto Itself, as a wave is
the effect of the Ocean’s desire to express Itself in a new way, a new
form, and to bring a uniqueness to every wave that arises from its
Mysterious Depths.

Surrender, then, is the process in which you finally relent, you give up
resisting the fact of your very existence. You stop whining about it.
You stop lamenting it. You stop worrying about it. You make the decision
to *get on with being alive*! And what is alive about you is going to be
alive forever. And there is no place to hide and nowhere to go.

When you have dropped that pebble into the mind,

> I am not a victim of the world I see. I am a ceaseless creator, made and
> of one substance with, my Creator Itself.

Then, indeed, the questions begin to take a different shape. You begin
to use the power of your awareness to deliberately and selectively
choose which vibrations, which webs of relationships, you’re going to
pull into your field of awareness — which ones you’re going to resonate
with and which ones you’re going to let dissolve from your mind, from
your awareness.

And if you have held onto a thought of smallness, a thought of lack, a
thought of powerlessness, now you begin to see that it’s perfectly
neutral, perfectly safe to look upon everything you’ve ever created and
experienced and say,

> ‘Tis very good, and now I’m done with it. What’s next? What pebbles can
> I drop into my Holy Mind in this very moment? Can I look upon the
> current experience I’m having and see that it’s nothing but the effect,
> the ripple, of a pebble or a thought that I dropped into my mind so long
> ago, so long ago that I don’t even remember it? Can I look upon those
> events that are unfolding around me (and if they’re unfolding in your
> body, trust me, that is still around you, for you are much more than
> just the body), can I begin now, and am I willing now, to drop a
> different pebble into the still and infinite clarity of the pool of
> awareness that is what is alive about me always? Dare I think a
> different thought? Dare I drop such a pebble into my consciousness?

And so what pebbles could they be?

> Hmm, I think I’ll become a world savior, a Christ. What would that be
> like? What vibrations would I need to let go out of my life and which
> ones would I need to open to? What would it feel like? What would I see
> as I look out through the field of my awareness at Creation? Hmm. I
> think I’ll allow myself to be able to commune with any web of
> relationship, any soul, any being, that exists on any plane of Creation.
> Why, perhaps I’ll even allow myself to know that I can be in
> communication with Jeshua ben Joseph. How wealthy can I become in this
> third-dimensional reality? How many golden coins could I possibly create
> in order to give them away to others? How many places on the planet
> could I take a body and plop it down upon, in the span of one short
> physical life? How many beings could I say “I love you” to? How big can
> I make my heart be? How deep can I experience peace?

The realm of possibilities is as infinite as you are. And the ones you
select and choose are the ones that will create the web of relationships
that you will call your life, your experience, even right down to the
quality of how you will experience the *transition*, mistakenly called
death, in your world. Would you call it a death when you leave one room
and close the door behind you and step into another room? Of course not.
You just say,

> I was there; now I am here.

That is all that truly occurs when the molecules you’ve called to
yourself are unglued because you release your value of them, and their
constituents, their parts, dissolve back into the dust or the energy
field of the planet. You merely leave one room and step into another.

<!-- Track t8 -->

What I call you to in this hour is this: to be willing to allow the
pebble to be dropped into your field, or *pool of awareness*, that carries
the energy of the thought,

> From this moment forward, I elect to birth a Christ, and thereby learn
> what Christ is!

And your experience becomes the unfolding learning of what Christ is.
And when that learning completes itself, you discover that what you have
learned is what you are created to be. And you have returned full
circle. The prodigal son, journeying through the field of all
possibilities, has returned as the Awakened Christ, and has taken up his
or her rightful place at the right hand of the Creator.

What does all that symbology mean? It just means you finally think only
with your *right-mindedness*. You think as God thinks, and God thinks
lovingly. God thinks infinitely, timelessly, patiently, certainly, and
above all, God thinks *play-fully* — full of play! When you feel, welling
up within you, such Love and such joy that you can hardly contain it,
don’t you start dancing and moving the body about, going,

> Oh, my gosh! What am I going to do about all this energy?

And you call your friends and say,

> Let’s have a party, let’s go to a movie, let’s create a delicious feast.
> Who could I write a letter to? Oh, who could I send flowers to?

Don’t you become caught up in the desire to let some energy expand out
of you, to touch all parts of your creation?

Well, imagine being God — infinite, vast, without a top or bottom or a
left or a right, filled with nothing but pure, unconditional, radiant
Love! Can you imagine being able to contain yourself and say,

> Oh, well, I think I’ll just sit here in this and not let anybody notice
> it.

No! God said,

> Let there be light!

And it was very good! And He looked upon all of Creation, which
literally means not just this planet but all of an infinite number of
creations of dimension upon dimension upon dimension, and all little
webs of relationships called souls that He brought into existence in one
split second and said,

> Lo, it is very good! This is My play! And My joy and My Love and My
> aliveness has poured forth and overflowed My Grand Being and brought
> forth into manifest creation — <span class="tr_normal">you</span>!

You, each and every you of you, made of the very substance of that
overwhelming Love and playfulness, the power to create infinitely, and
thereby to extend Creation Itself! That is who you are! And that is
where you find yourself, *now*, and now forever. And you will never escape
it.

<!-- Track t9 -->

Mastery comes when fear has been completely dissolved. And fear is
dissolved, not by fearing it, not by hating it, not by judging it, but
by being looked upon with perfect innocence, embraced in the same way
that as a scientist would watch the ripples of a little pebble that’s
been dropped into a pool of water to see how they’ve created other
ripples, and other temporary disturbances in the field or the surface of
the water.

As you look within and notice the things you’ve become afraid of and how
fear has constricted your creativity, your joy, your playfulness, and
your unlimitedness, you merely look with innocence and wonder and say,

> Oh, I see how that ripple has affected the creation that I call my life.
> Hmm, Do I like it? Not any more. Good! I think I’ll be rid of that. What
> can I replace it with?

Mastery is a state in which you have embraced yourself as a ceaseless
creator and assumed complete responsibility for everything which comes
into the field of your awareness, *without judging it*, so that you can
simply decide whether it’s going to stay or be dissolved in its effects.
*Mastery is fear-less-ness* ... no longer fearing the infinite, creative
power of your perfect union with God. *“I and my Father are One!”* is one
expression of mastery.

And if I, who uttered those words once, so long ago, in your experience
of time, can demonstrate to anyone who will look, that consciousness
transcends the limited beliefs about the body and life and death that
the world seems so determined to defend at all costs — if I can
demonstrate that only Love is real, if I can demonstrate the power to
communicate with minds across Creation, if I can bring forth creations
by joining with other minds who may temporarily think they are just a
body, such that written words fall upon a page and the page becomes part
of book that becomes part of something sitting on your shelf, such that
your heart is touched at just the right time — if I can do these things,
so, too, can you. And indeed, greater things than these *shall* you do!

<!-- Track t10 -->

Beloved friends, is it not time to assume complete responsibility for
the *grand freedom* that has been imparted to you by *Abba* — Father,
Creator, Source of your being? Is it not time to begin spending time
*disengaging* from your entangled view that holds you to believe that what
you feel and what you think is the *effect* of all of the energies and
things that are coming *at* you, from around you, and begin to use time to
decide which pebbles you will drop into the *field of your awareness*
consistently, day by day, hour by hour, and even breath by breath?

For these things create your tomorrows, and you cannot ever escape the
reality that you are and always will be in the process of creating your
tomorrows. Death will never separate you from it; denial does not change
it. And you are free to decide what your tomorrows will be through the
act of seeking first the Kingdom, which means to rest into that inner
silence in which you *know* that you are a wave having arisen with perfect
momentum out of the depth of the Ocean of God’s Holy Mind, and that what
you carry with you is the result of the thoughts and the beliefs and the
perceptions — like pebbles that you have dropped into the wave of your
awareness.

This very process is what created you, and this very process is how you
have always created. If you’ve ever received an education, how did you
end up with your body in a classroom? Did somebody kidnap you and sit
you down and say, “Here, you must learn these things”? No. You first
held a thought, a picture, and you placed a value upon it, and you
attracted the means that carried you into the lived experience of
receiving the education that *you* had decided upon.

What relationship have you ever entered out of lack of awareness? None.
You dropped the pebble into the mind that said,

> I want relationship with another being, another body, another place upon
> the physical planet.

You’ve always been doing it, and you have always experienced the fruit
or the effect of the quality of vibration of the pebble that has created
the ripples that have become your experiences. In reality, then, your
experience, that is, your awareness, what is true about you, is no
different than what is true about me.

The only difference has been that I learned to train myself, hour by
hour, to drop only *unlimited pebbles*, that send out vibrations of
unconditional acceptance and Love and forgiveness, and unconditional and
unbridled vision, and revelation, while *you* have selected to do that a
*few* times, but then you rush back and pick up the pebbles of
unworthiness, or limitation, or lack, or fear, or smallness, and you
drop ten or twelve quick ones in. Then you go back to the other cupboard
and go,

> Hmm, the pebble that says, “I and my Father are One” . . . oops, had
> enough of that!

And back you go again. So, while I stay on this side of the fence going,

> I and my Father are One! I and my Father are One! I am Unlimited
> Beingness forever! How many universes can I be the Savior of today?

*you* have gone,

> That sounds very good. I and my Father are One. Oh, here is a pebble
> that says my car needs to break down today.

Hmm.

<!-- Track t11 -->

*This* is all there is! Which side of the fence are you going to sit on
and drop the pebbles in? Which *tree* will you eat the fruit thereof? The
tree of knowledge of good and evil? Hmm. Use that symbology well, for
when you drop the pebble in the pond it is like saying,

> Well, I think I will take a bite of this piece of fruit. Oh, but it’s so
> sweet, it’s so good and so perfect, I’d better have a bite of a rotten
> one, too, to balance it out.

The tree of good and evil, positive and negative,
unlimitedness/limitation, forgiveness/judgment, love/fear — it’s like
holding a beautiful flower and seeing the petals and going,

> Oh, it’s so beautiful. I can’t quite take it, so I think I’ll prick my
> finger on the thorn and bring myself back down.

No one ever told you, and your Creator never insisted, that you eat of
the tree of good and evil. For all *good fruit* has been given you freely.
And you are always free to choose *which* fruit you will eat thereof.

> I and my Father are One! Mmm, what a blessed Creation. I’ve been having
> so much fun as this wave. Yes, I see what I have carried along with me.
> Well, it was fun. I gained a few things. Now, what’s next? Unlimitedness
> (kerplunk!), perfect love (kerplunk!), wealth (kerplunk!), the ability
> to heal (kerplunk kerplunk kerplunk!), oh, yes, I see that little pebble
> over there sitting on the shore that I’ve picked up a million times:
> unworthiness (kerplunk!) But no more! Be done with you! I and my Father
> are One! I and my Father are One! Father, create through me the good,
> the holy, and the beautiful, for this is the reason for my beingness!
> How big of a wave can I become? How powerful can I become? How radiant
> can I become? How much of You can I express through me? (kerplunk!)

For remember well, that *you are creating your tomorrows NOW*! And what
you experience never comes to you from outside your Self.

If you worry over lack of golden coins, kerplunk! And you begin to
attract the vibrational ripples that will *seem* to picture back to you,
reflect back to you, the truth that you have chosen to believe:

> I live in lack and I can’t get out (kerplunk!). I can’t possibly talk to
> Jeshua. I’m not worthy. Maybe Jon Marc, perhaps he is worthy enough, but
> then, he’s special (kerplunk!)

And the vibrational waves that come to you are that static that
restricts your ability to transcend the third dimension and plug into
others. So that even if I yell and shout,

> Hey, I’m talking to you. Listen!

the mind says,

> That’s not possible, because I’ve dropped a rock in (kerplunk!) that
> says, “It’s not possible.” And therefore, I do not hear a thing.

Do you begin to get the picture? Do you begin to *feel*, in the core of
you beingness, the essence of this hour’s message? *You cannot escape
being what you are created to be.* And in each and every moment you are,
literally, using that *ceaseless* and *unlimited power* to create. And you
remain perfectly free at any time to create anew. And what you will
experience in your tomorrows is only the effect of which pebbles you are
choosing to drop into the field of your awareness as thoughts *now*.

<!-- Track t12 -->

So the only question is (and with this question we will complete this
short message, but a very important message upon which we will be
building) the question is this:

> Am I, as a creative being, made in the image of God, willing to
> deliberately, consciously, and actively choose being responsible for
> which thoughts, which pebbles, are dropped into my mind in each moment?
> And if the answer is yes, what do I want the new pebbles to be? What
> vibrational qualities will I call to myself and thereby create my
> tomorrows?

Any time you react to what you believe is outside of yourself, you may
be absolutely *positive* of this: You have elected to pick up that old
pebble that said,

> I’m a victim of the world I see. What I experience is caused by forces
> outside of me. The fault really is in my mother, my brother, my father,
> my child. The fault really is in the government, and the planet, and the
> quality of air. The fault really is from a source outside of me, and I
> have no choice but to react to it.

To which I can only say,

> Would you rather be right, or happy?

Therefore, indeed, beloved friends, consider well the essence of the
message of this hour. For, upon this, we will begin to build as we move
toward the ending of this year of *The Way of the Heart*, which is but a
foundation from which those that are willing can spring forth into a
grander dimension, a grander experience of living as a deliberate
co-creator with God.

But it all begins with a need to be responsible for *owning* the Truth of
the message of this hour. For without that, there can be no change in
your consciousness, and therefore, in what you will experience in your
tomorrows. So if there is something in your present that makes you
shudder, just think what’s waiting for you if you once again deny
choosing this responsibility and the power that comes with it.

And with that, indeed, beloved and holy friends, remember that I come
not to bring peace to the world, but to shake it up so that those beings
who make up the world can discover where true peace is truly hidden:
*within themselves*. And where Heaven abides: within themselves. And where
Christ lives: *within themselves*.

Peace, then, be unto you always.

Amen.

---

## Question One

[*Question One*](/t/wom/woh/l08/q1/): During a period of higher
consciousness, I was aware of a presence that encompassed individuals.
It was plain to me that it performed a function of guiding the person
into appropriate experiences.  I’m not clear if this is what you call
The Holy Spirit. It seemed to be like an Oversoul of the person. Would
you please clarify this presence and the Holy Spirit?
{: .omit}

---

## Question Two

[*Question Two*](/t/wom/woh/l08/q2/): What is the difference between
that which needs to be healed and just being the perfect being we are?
{: .omit}

