---
title: "Lesson Nine"
---

Now, we begin.

And indeed, once again, greetings unto you, beloved and holy Children of
Light Divine. Again I come forth to abide with you, as your brother, and
as your friend, who looks upon you and sees naught but the light in the Face of
Christ within you. And Christ is the firstborn of the Father, that is,
it is That which is begotten, and not made. Christ is God’s creation.
Christ is the Holy Child of God. Christ is as a sunbeam to the sun,
radiating forever from the Holy Mind of what I have called *Abba*.

Therefore, I come forth to abide with you in perfect joy, and in perfect
freedom, and in perfect reality. I come forth to join with that part of
you that abides always in perfect knowledge, perfect peace, perfect
knowing-ness, and in perfect union with your Creator. I come not to
speak of things that you do not know. I come not to use words which do
not already abide within you. I come not with the wisdom that you do not
already contain. I come not with a Love grander than that which already
flowers within the silent places of your own heart. I come *not* to place
myself above you. I come only to walk as an equal beside you.

I come because I love you. I come because I am your friend. And of all
the things that I could possibly choose to do with the unlimited power
of consciousness, given equally unto me of my Father, as it was given
unto you, of all of the places and dimensions and worlds in which I
could reside in this moment, in Truth, I come to abide *with you*, in this
manner, as together we utilize a creation device, a communication device
— you would call it a body — in order to bridge the gap that seems to
yet separate you from me.

In reality, all dimensions of Creation reside in a space far smaller
than the tip of a pin. In reality, all dimensions of Creation are so
vast that you could never measure them. In reality, there is no gap
between where you are and I am. And this is why I can be no further from
you than the width of a thought. But, oh indeed, beloved friends, the
power of a thought is the power to create universes, and within
universes to create yet more universes, and within those universes to
create world upon world upon world upon world upon world.

And your lived experience is that, momentarily, your attention seems to
be focused on your unique world, which shares some things in common with
many other beings. You have what is called in your world a *consensus
reality* — we would say a *consensus experience*, born out of a *universal
reality*. Beloved friends, even as you abide in your awareness in this
moment, you are the creator of the world you experience. And you do this
in so many ordinary ways.

When you stand face to face with anyone, and for just a split second,
you alter the position of the body through which you gaze upon them —
you take up a new stance, a new perspective — and in that very split
second, you have created a new experience for yourself. When you look
upon that friend and the mind moves from neutrality (which is where you
begin every experience) into the thought,

> Oh, that is my friend, Mary. That is my friend, St. Germain. Oh, that is
> my friend, Peter. That is my friend, Joanna. That is my friend,
> Nathaniel.

Whatever the name may be, when you hold that thought, already do you
begin to change the experience.

You are a literal creator in that moment. For when you name anything,
you define it according to the factors that you have built into the name
that you use. When you look upon a field of energy arising from the
mystery of your planet Earth and you say the word “tree” — [snaps
fingers] that fast — you have brought forth, into your manifest
experience, everything you have ever decided on that is associated with
the field of energy that you have called “tree.” And in this way, your
experience is entirely unique. It has never been before; it will never
be. Nothing can repeat it. And this is why Creation is forever new.

Yes, you can stand with your friend and look upon a tree and nod your
head and say,

> Well yes, of course, that’s a tree.

Yes, I see the branches, I see the leaves.

But as soon as you have named it, you have brought forth with yourself
all of the associations you have called to yourself, your experience, of
that field of energy that you have called, “tree.” Rest assured, those
in your world called environmentalists and those in your world that you
have labeled loggers, definitely see a different experience though they
use the word “tree.”

Which is right, then, and which is wrong? This does not apply.

And in this hour, we want to address for you another of the important *pebbles*
that you must drop into the clear, still pool of your awareness. It is
simply this: All webs of relationship, all energy fields, are *absolutely
neutral*. What creates experience is how you decide you will view that
web of relationship, that field of energy. The *effect* of that decision
is also completely neutral.

But how can that be? For when a logger sees a tree and sees only the
profit to be made, forests disappear. And when an environmentalist looks
at a tree, the tree remains and the mighty owls and the birds have a
place to make their home. Surely, are we not to perpetuate the same
reality, the same experience that all human beings have had? Is there
not loss when the forest disappears? *Listen well and carefully: All
events are neutral.* *You* are the one that places the value upon it.

Now, does that mean that one should become cold-hearted, unconscious,
and blind to their actions? Of course not, for part of awakening means
to realize one’s interconnection with the web of all relationships. It
means awakening a reverence for the mystery that is Life. But it also
means to release judgment of another who would view the tree
differently. For you see, the body that you have crystallized, out of a
field of infinite energy, has but one purpose. It is a communication
device.

Therefore, let your primary perception, your primary guiding light in
your third dimensional experience, be this:

> What do I choose to communicate to the world, with every gesture, with
> every breath, with every word spoken, with every decision made?

For ceaselessly, while the body lasts, you are engaged in the process of
communicating to the world, making manifest to the world, what you have
chosen to value, what you have called into your experience and imbued
with value. This means that ceaselessly you are engaged in teaching the
world what you believe holds the greatest truth, the greatest value.

And when an environmentalist looks upon a logger and becomes
exasperated, and judges that logger, or vice versa, the body is being
used to communicate the value of judgment. That creates fear and
contraction. And the result you see in your world of many, many minds
choosing to value the right to judge is the effect you call *your* world,
in which everything seems to be expressing conflict, struggle, what you
call the “butting of heads” — the conflict, the Armageddon of opposite
ideas running into each other. And just beneath it all, all events
remain completely neutral.

And even if the forests of your planet were completely taken away, that
would be a neutral event. And why? Because if all of the trees were
gone, if the very physical planet you call Earth died, dissolved from
view, *Life* would continue. Life would merely create new worlds. It does
it all the time. *You* do it all the time.

The events, then, that you experience are always neutral. And what you
see occurring in the world around you remains neutral until *you* make the
decision what it will be — *for you*. You will name it and, therefore, you
will define it. And when you define it, you call all of the associations
of that to your self. This is why once I taught it is very wise to
forgive seventy times seven times — for a very selfish reason. For if
one wrongs you, and you spend your energy convincing them that they have
wronged you, that, therefore, you have a right to be angry, to be
attacking in any way, you call to yourself, even into the cells of the
body, the energy of conflict, judgment, war, death, disease,
unhappiness, and separation — that fast!

But if you forgive seventy times seven, then in each of those moments of
forgiveness, you call into your field of energy what reminds you of
unconditional Love, perfect peace, a power that transcends anything that
arises in the world. You call to yourself the reality of Christ. And all
of it hinges on nothing more than the pebbles that you drop into your
mind.

Where, then, have you drawn the line? Where have you said,

> Well, I will allow neutrality to all events in this sphere, but not in
> that sphere. If my friends divorce or separate, well, okay, I’ll see
> that as neutral. But if my spouse leaves me, that is not neutral. If my
> friend’s father leaves three million dollars to his children, well,
> that’s fine. That’s a neutral event. But if my father leaves his three
> million dollars to charity and leaves me out of the picture, that is not
> a neutral event.

If the streams in a country on the other side of the world from where
you are become polluted because the consciousness of a community allowed
a factory to be built without safeguards,

> Well, it’s on the other side of the world: neutral event. But if they
> build it in my backyard, it is no longer neutral.

It is always wise to look lovingly to see where you have drawn the line,
to see what you will look upon as neutral and what you cling to as being
filled with meaning and value that is unquestionable. For there you will
find what requires forgiveness within you. We have shared with you that
mastery is a state of fearlessness. When you place a value upon
something, and then become adamant that that value exists in the event
or the object outside of you, you have but secured your place in fear.
And fearlessness is as far from you as the east is from the west.

Look well, then, to see where you have placed a value, and insisted that
that value be unshakable. How many times in each of your days, do you
say,

> Oh, boy! If my dog ever died I would not be able to take it. That would
> just be the end of me,

or,

> If the banks collapse ... oh, God! I wouldn’t be able to take that!

Be careful what you decree. Look to see where you are emotionally
enmeshed with the value you have placed upon anything or anyone, any
relationship whatsoever, whether it be the relationship with your
spouse, the relationship with your government, the relationship with
your body, the relationship with your cat or your dog, the relationship
with your bank account — all of your relationships.

For you have made them what they are. And where can freedom be
experienced, save within a consciousness that has learned how to
transcend the contraction of fear? And fear is the result of your
attachment to the values you have placed upon the events you experience,
which are made up of events, persons, places, things — all of these are
actually just events. Every web of relationship comes to you perfectly
neutral. You decree it by naming it and defining it. When one comes to
you in anger and you react, recognize that you first decided that they
are angry, and you have brought forth with it all of the associations
you have ever decided to value concerning what anger means.

And yet, in that very moment, you hold the power to witness this field
of energy circulating through the body and mind and the speech of
another, and to see it as a dance of energy, a mystery arising from some
unseen source, some unseen web of relationships. And you could look upon
it with curiosity and with wonder, if you defined it *differently*. This
is true for all things that arise. Even that which is called the great
diseases of the body, that seem to threaten the life of the body in your
world, can be looked at with complete neutrality. But if you define them
in a specific way, you will call to yourself the fear of that event,
which comes with all of the associations you have learned from the
world, from your own experiences.

The message of this hour, then, is simple, but it is very important. And
it builds on all that we have shared previously with you. You are a
creator, and you cannot help but create. The question, then, is: *What*
will you create in each moment? Far beyond the great thrill of the magic
of creating events or objects in third dimensional reality are the
*qualities* that you create, such as peace, unlimitedness, forgiveness,
compassion, wisdom. These, too, are creations.

Compassion doesn’t exist floating about in the universe until you
*manifest it* and *cultivate it within your own consciousness*. Christed
Consciousness cannot be said to truly exist for *you*, *until you create
it within yourself*. Your union with God doesn’t even exist , for you,
until you decide to open to the lived experience of it, much as a food
you have never tasted might as well not exist for you until you journey
to that country, purchase it, and place it in the body. Or in your day
and age I would say that you must go to your grocery store and find the
gourmet international section. Hmm!

Nothing can be said to exist — for *you* — until you have tasted the *lived
experience* of it. So when you hear talk about enlightenment, when you
hear talk about union with God, when you hear talk about unconditional
Love, stop nodding your head, thinking you know what these things are,
and turn your attention within. Do you abide in a *lived experience* of
these things? That fast you’ll know what the answer is.

If the answer is,

> No. I hear talk about enlightenment and I get little glimpses, but I
> don’t really know what it is because I’m not feeling it completely in my
> lived experience.

Right away you will know that there must be something that you have
valued *other than* enlightenment, that you are insisting remain in place
in your consciousness.

What is it? Search it out, find it, and decide whether you still want
it. We would perceive that there are many in your world who like to walk
around *as if* they are in a state of peace, with the smiles upon the
faces. Perhaps they carry the Holy Bible in their hand, or some other
such text. They wear some religious icon upon their body so as to create
the appearance of one who is at peace. But inwardly, when they turn on
their television and they watch how the logger has felled yet another
tree, inwardly they respond by calling that one “ignorant” or “stupid”
or “limited.” In that moment, they have spoken to the universe the truth
that they are choosing to live:

> I am not one who wants to know what peace is. I am not one interested in
> forgiveness. I am not one interested in wisdom. I am interested in
> judgment and the "high" that I feel in my body through the act of judging
> another as being less than myself.

In short, it is time to give up the pretense. It is time to begin
viewing yourself from the perspective of an absolute, ceaseless creator;
to begin looking at exactly what you are creating in each moment of your
experience; to bring the quality of childlike innocence to what you
*actually* experience, not what you tell everybody else you are
experiencing. It is time to become honest with the effects of the
ripples of the rocks or the pebbles you have dropped into the field of
the awareness, as a great form of play.

For you see, a creator who understands their infinite power to create,
who understands that it’s going on ceaselessly, that effects are being
generated moment to moment to moment to moment, that will indeed be
making up their tomorrows, *gladly* gives up the energy of denial and
turns to look upon every moment of their experience, that they might
discern what choice they must have made to bring about the effects
they’re currently experiencing.

When a bill comes, and your body shakes and you go into contraction and
worry because there are not enough golden coins in the checkbook to pay
for it, the creator *stops* and looks upon all that is being experienced
in the field of the body, in the emotional body, the thoughts being held
in the mind. They begin to notice how they are viewing the objects
around themselves, the world around them, in order to begin to wonder,

> What thought must I have dropped into the pool of my mind to create the
> effect of lacking golden coins? And is that a thought I wish to drop
> into my mind so that I create similar effects in my tomorrows?

Here is the doorway of wisdom: *Do not create unconsciously* and then just
walk away. But learn ceaselessly from your creation. For in this way you
begin the process of dissolving the creation of an un-enlightened being
and you begin to build the creation of a Christ here, and now, in this
moment. Never, never believe that your thoughts are neutral. I said
earlier events are neutral, but your thoughts are not. For your thoughts
literally are imbued with the power of creation. They do not create
neutrally. That is, every thought reverberates a quality of vibration
that spreads out from you, touches the shores of manifested reality, and
comes back to you. That is what you experience as the positive and
negative events of your life.

Now, it is very true — please listen carefully to this — that at any
moment as you go along in your experience, as you experience the
reverberation, the coming back of the ripples you’ve sent out, in that
very moment you are not a victim of what you have created. Because in
each such moment you remain as perfectly free as you were when you first
dropped the pebble into the pond that even created the ripple in the
first place. You are free to choose how you will experience the effect
of that ripple. And if you experience it with unconditional freedom,
with unconditional acceptance and Love, forgiveness, neutrality,
innocence, you literally defuse the effects of that ripple upon the pool
of your consciousness. And then, in that moment, you become instantly
free to begin creating, in a new way, the ripples that you will
experience in the future. And this is why you are never a victim of
anyone’s creation, especially your own.

It’s not that life is so complex that you’ve created all these momentums
and now you’re stuck with them. In any moment that you *get it*, and you
stop reacting as if you were a victim, and looked merely at the ripples
that are coming back to you that you’ve sent out from yourself and said,

> This has come into my field of experience as an awesome mystery. And
> this means that I am an awesomely powerful being! Therefore, I will look
> lovingly upon this ripple. Yes, I know it needs to play itself out, but
> as it does so, I’m going to be wise enough to see the transparency of
> it, to see the lack of effect that it really has. It doesn’t change who
> I am. It doesn’t add anything to my life. It doesn’t take anything from
> it. It merely is an experience, called Life, passing through the field
> of my awareness. If I look lovingly upon it, if I embrace it, I can
> transmute it, and, therefore, already be engaged in the process of
> creating a whole different kind of vibrational ripple that will create
> my tomorrows.

That means that while the power of your thoughts are not neutral, the
events called the *effects* of those thoughts can be either neutral or not
neutral, depending on how you use the very primary power of awareness.
We’re seeking, then, to share with you how infinitely *free* you are.

There are many in your world that teach this illusory doctrine of what
is called the *karma*, that what you send out now you *must* experience
sooner or later, and how you experience it is directly related to the
quality of the ripple you send out. *That is not true.* That would make
you a victim. And if you are made in the image of God, and I assure you
that you are, you are *not a victim of the world you see*. You cannot, in
reality, be victimized by anyone or anything at any time, because your
reality is that you are made in the image of God. And if you could truly
be victimized, it would mean that God creates *unlike Himself*. Does a
salmon come from an oak tree? Does a nebula come out of the womb of a
woman? Does a raspberry grow on a grocery store shelf? No. *Like begets
like.*

Therefore, why would you ever believe that from God, Who is but Love and
Unlimited Creativity and Power, could ever beget something that is small
and little and powerless? It doesn’t happen. God cannot be victimized.
Therefore, God’s creation remains victimless. All events remain neutral,
and all that the environmentalist and the logger are doing is using the
power of consciousness to momentarily create the belief that they are
this and not that. They place a value, of their own choosing, upon an
event of energy that they call a “tree.” And by what value they place
upon it, they call the quality of experience that they will have into
their field of awareness. That’s all that’s happening.

The energy that makes up the tree is eternal forever. It may change
form, but Life remains. Therefore, lament not the passing away of a
species, but trust the Grand Intelligence that gave rise to it in the
first place, for it is still busy creating even greater universes. This
is why loss does not exist.

How does all of this relate to your daily experience? We want to suggest
(and this is very important as we move into the following year) it’s
going to become *very* crucial that you have a foundation upon which to
build, if you are ready to completely assume responsibility for having
been created in the image of God, and that therefore you are an eternal
creator. Begin *now* to utilize some time each day, without letting a day
go by, in which you *sit with yourself* — not with your mate, not with
your parents, not with the television, not with your favorite sport
team, not with your favorite actor or actress, not with your favorite
religion, not with your favorite god or master or savior (not even me) —
*sit with you* and start *by acknowledging that you are One with God*.

Understand that the very body that seems to have a heart within it, that
is beating life for you — this itself is the effect of decisions and
choices you have made — that the very chair that you are sitting on is
the result of your attracting a web of relationships that’s quite unique
into your field of awareness, called the physical universe. And in that
moment you are having an experience you’ve never had before: *you are
sitting in the chair now*! And the event is completely neutral. And
nothing that you are experiencing in your consciousness exists or is
sourced by anything outside yourself.

Give yourself five minutes to choose, to practice choosing, how you will
experience sitting in a chair, with a mind full of worry, or a mind full
of peace? A mind thinking of all the things it could be doing, or a mind
*marveling* at how the weight of a body feels pressed against the seat of
a chair? A mind that creates tension in the way the breath flows through
the body, or a mind that creates ease and comfort?

Five minutes of practice sitting in a chair as an infinite creator of
exactly what you are experiencing in your emotional field. Just that.
You might even want to play with what it would feel like to sit in a
chair *as a Christ*. What would that feel like? I’ll let you choose
whether or not you would like to experience it. Five minutes each day.
Do it without fail! Be with yourself, and decide how you will experience
yourself *now*!

For you see, the you that sat down into the chair, with whatever was
going on in your consciousness, whatever feelings you were having
throughout the body, whatever was going on in your primary
relationships, how the food was digested in the body, all of it, the
whole realm of your experience, was the effect of how you have been a
million times when you’ve sat down to be with yourself in a thousand
different chairs. Utilize the very process of sitting down in a chair as
a symbol of preparing the mind for the dropping of a pebble into it, out
of which will reverberate the vibrations, or ripples, that will come
back to you.

You see, it’s much easier to send out ripples, which you’ll be doing
anyway, and experience them, when they come back, in a blissful way, a
way that brings you peace and joy and fun and laughter and play and
unlimitedness, instead of having to constantly butt your head against
something that you’d rather transmute, or run away from. But it begins
with five minutes, in which you acknowledge that you can create whatever
experience you want, as a feeling that floods through your awareness, as
a quality of thought that you allow to keep repeating in the mind.

You can sit in a chair as an Awakened Christ, *now*!

> I and my Father are One! It’s a beautiful day! I’ve manifested a
> physical form sitting in a chair in a corner of one little tiny
> dimension of Creation. How amazing this moment is! I think I’ll just sit
> here and feel the heart beating in the body, the breath flowing through
> it. Ah, there’s the sound of a bird. I’m glad I called that to myself. I
> like the way that sandwich is digesting in this body. What beautiful
> thoughts can I think right now? Who can I send Love to without lifting a
> finger? I am unlimited forever! I am free! I am free! I am free!

Do you think you would like to have that experience for five minutes?
Why not begin today? For so many of you upon your physical plane keep
searching for some form of magic that will bring the Kingdom of Heaven
to you. You can’t bring it *to you*. You can only become aware of how you
are using it to create the ripples that you send out *from yourself*. Do
you know the saying in your world, “Wherever you go, there you are”? You
*are* God’s creation. You’re in Heaven now. Heaven is not a place. *It is a
state of unlimited and infinite creative power*, because it is the
reflection of God’s Holy Mind.

Why not be one who practices being the presence of Heaven? And if that
seems too awesome, or too far beyond you, then just play with it for
five minutes a day. And trust me, I will love you no less if, for the
other twenty-three hours and fifty-five minutes, you decide to play at
pretending and feeling that you are little, unworthy, unloved, unloving,
unlovable, that you are the scourge of the Earth, that life is
constantly victimizing you — go right ahead. I would never interfere
with your free choice. I may not come and knock at your door, except for
those five minutes. But you remain free to utilize time any way you
wish.

But for just five minutes, experience yourself as Christ, crystallizing
a body as a temporary teaching and learning communication device,
plopping itself into a chair in a totally neutral corner of Creation,
because *you* want to have the experience of sitting blissfully at peace
in your perfect knowledge of your union with God, in this moment. You
might even find yourself daring to have thoughts such as this:

> Well, since I’m an infinite creator, what would I like to create for my
> tomorrows?

And if, during that five minutes, there’s a knock upon the door and it’s
the bill collector, who cares? That’s *that* soul’s experience of thinking
they’re a bill collector and you’re some bad person they must corral.
Let them have their experience. Sit calmly, hear the knocking on the
door, and allow yourself to be entertained by the beautiful worlds you
are creating for your tomorrows. Here is the straight and narrow path
that leads unto Life; here the eye of the needle through which you must
pass.

For it is not enough to just embrace the idea that,

> I am the creator of all that I experience.

You must then choose to *actively* put it into practice. It begins with
the practice of five minutes a day — that’s all. And when you feel that
you can fulfill that for five minutes, then you can make it ten, and
then twelve, and then fifteen, and then twenty, and it sounds like such
a little piece.

> You mean, for twenty minutes hang out as though I am Christ Incarnate,
> totally in union with God, totally free to begin creating different
> ripples than I’ve ever experienced before, knowing that they will come
> back to me and become my manifested experience? No doubt about it! But
> twenty minutes? Even if I could achieve that, that’s such a small
> fraction of the time of a day.

Beloved friends, if you had faith as a tiny, tiny, tiny little seed, you
would know that you, from that little tiny faith, will create the mighty
oak tree, whose branches will shelter you from the blistering sun and
give comfort unto many. Twenty minutes is an eternity when it comes to
creating your tomorrows!

And if you believe that the other twenty-three hours must be taken up by
experiencing the effects of what you created a long time ago, the
ripples that are coming back, so be it. Play with it. Let yourself
transmute those moments.

> Oh, here I am answering the door. Yes, bill collector. Hi. Come on in.
> Have a glass of water. You know, you’re absolutely right, I didn’t pay
> that bill. Did you want to know why? Silly me, I’ve actually decided to
> create the experience that I’m someone who can only create lack. That’s
> why I have no golden coins in my checkbook. It’s just the darndest
> thing, isn’t it?! Oh, very good, so you’re going to turn my name over to
> the authorities, and now I’ll have no credit with anybody on the planet.
> Well, go ahead if it makes your day. I have other things to do. I’m busy
> creating a new tomorrow. And I know that all around me is going to be
> taken from me anyway, since everything birthed in time ends in time. My
> house will be gone, my car will be gone, my clothes will be gone, my
> friends will be gone. Everything I’ve experienced in time is changing
> anyway, so go ahead, take it from me now. It’ll just speed up the
> process.

I do not speak of this tongue-in-cheek. I speak from the perspective of
one who *is* an Awakened Christ, who already *knows* how to birth universes
to create that which is holy, good, and beautiful. I *know* that this is
the way. It’s the *only* way. Release the value you’ve attached to your
experiences, even the bill collector, and spend your time, instead,
deciding which pebbles you’re going to drop into the field of your mind.
For you will create as the result of what you choose to think today. And
what you value today will show itself to you tomorrow.

I learned to value unlimitedness. I learned to value Love. I learned to
value fearlessness. Yes, my method for doing that was rather unique, and
I would not recommend that you follow in my footsteps. Unless, of
course, you like the drama of being nailed to a cross, and then stood up
in front of all of your friends, in order to learn to transcend fear in
your mind! I learned to value unbroken communication with every soul in
every dimension of Creation. I learned to value only my loving thoughts.
And I birthed or grew a Christ out of the very seed of awareness that
exists equally within each of you.

Therefore, where you are in this moment, look around. Look at the
objects that you see. Look at the people that you see around you, if
there are any. Whatever sounds may be coming into your field of
awareness, whatever pictures or ideas you may hold of what you are or
what the world is, these are all fleeting and temporary illusions. They
will pass away, and began passing away, the moment they were created.

Therefore, indeed, beloved friends, *look at all that is around you, and
decide what value it holds for you*. Will you see it as something that
you *must* have in your existence? Or will you choose to see it as
something you’ve playfully drawn to yourself, you appreciate it, and it
can be gone tomorrow, and your peace will not be disturbed? Which way
will you view the world?

Five minutes, one for each finger and thumb on a hand; one minute in
which you choose to sit as Christ in the midst of your kingdom, your
creation, and *you* decide which thoughts you will hold and, therefore,
determine how you see all that is in the field of your awareness, and
which thoughts *you* will allow to begin to generate the ripples that you
will send out that *will* — there is no way to escape it — that *will*
return to you.

For once, indeed, there was a farmer who went out to plant the seed in
his ground. But before he went to plant the seed, he selected the seed
*very carefully*. And while other farmers rushed out, because they
thought,

> Oh, look, it is the time for the plant to begin. Everything is perfect.
> The conditions are just right. We must make haste and plant.

And they bought whatever seeds they could get and went out and spread
them across the ground, and began their busy work of doing what they had
to do. Rest assured, they will have their harvest.

But the wise farmer waited, and while he was laughed at by his
colleagues, he carefully selected every seed. He waited until he could
hold it in his hand and say,

> Oh, I like the vibration of this seed. This feels very good. Oh yes! I
> can just see this beautiful plant that is going to arise from this. The
> fruit of it will be the sweetest in the valley.

And he gathered his seeds. He paid no attention to the passing of the
dates on a calendar. He paid no attention to the changing weather
conditions.

He knew that when the time was right the seed would be planted, and from
it would burst forth the flower of those seeds. He *knew* it! He gave no
thought to the opinions of his colleagues. He enjoyed the process of
loving the seeds that he was making his own. And then, the farmer went
out and he cast the seed upon the soil of his farm, which is likened
unto the soil of your own awareness. And he planted the seeds, and he
tamped them down, and he nurtured them, and he watered them, and he
cultivated them with a smile upon his face.

And yes, the neighbors’ seemed to be already sprouting up through the
ground. He couldn’t have cared less, for he knew that *these* seeds would
bring him an *eternal* harvest, that they would not just burst forth once
from the soil, and then throw out some mediocre fruit, and then die. For
he had selected seeds that would constantly bring forth, in each season,
the *best* of fruits. And he loved them, and he nurtured them, and he
cultivated them. And long after the other farmers had grown weary and
tired and had experienced drought, and seeds that brought forth fruit
where insects would come and destroy them, that would not be purchased
and bought by the people in the market place, this one farmer became the
greatest of farmers in the entire valley.

And people would come from all over the world to bite, to take a little
nibble, out of the fruit that came from his garden. And yet, the farmer
merely delighted in continually loving and nurturing these seeds, and
cultivating the soil in which they were planted daily. He never took his
consciousness away from his perfect union with those seeds. He never
once forgot that he was the one that created his farm as a direct result
of his careful selection of which seeds he would plant in his soil. And
while others marveled at his good fortune, and while others were jealous
of his good luck, the farmer always knew that no magic was involved.

He merely followed in the footsteps of the wisdom given to him by God:

> Take My Fruit and plant It in your consciousness. Know that you are One
> with Me, and that Fruit you experience is the result of the seeds you
> plant in your own consciousness, that you cannot help but experience the
> result, the fruit, of the seeds you plant. Nothing bursts forth on the
> vine of your experience by accident. Therefore, create with Me, My
> Child. Create like unto Myself, by knowing, KNOWING that you are a
> creator, a farmer, a planter. And you will, indeed, harvest the quality
> of the seeds that you plant, just as you, Beloved Child, are the harvest
> of the seed I once planted, when first I held the thought of you in My
> Holy Mind. And in that moment, you arose as a sunbeam from the sun, made
> in My image. I held you as the thought of Love in form. And I bestowed
> you with all good things.

Therefore, see yourself as I see you. Embrace yourself as I embrace you.
Accept yourself as you are — a creator, creating without ceasing.

And just as I sat upon My throne (so said the God of all Creation, which
really means sitting in the center of All That Is), and beheld you as a
loving thought, so too, choose only to allow loving thoughts to enter
into your consciousness. Choose to only allow loving thoughts to be
expressed with your words. Choose only to allow loving thoughts to be
translated into your gestures, your choices, your actions, and thereby,
create as I created you — that which extends joy forever; that which
extends the holy, the beautiful, and the good, forever. For that is what
you are. And that is how I thought of you when I created you. And that
is what you remain eternally.

Therefore, join with Me, by extending your creation, as I have extended
you. And since you have manifested a physical body, accept My Son’s
teaching, and let that body be placed in a chair, that you might think
like the Mind of Christ for five minutes. And you will beget an
eternality that reflects the Radiance of Heaven, just as you reflect My
Radiance when I look upon the Unlimited Soul that you are.

Indeed, in all of the valley there was but one farmer that was wise.
Will *you* elect to join the union comprised of all of the hasty farmers?
Or will you choose to take up residence as the *one* farmer who knows how
to create wisely, and, in faith, rests on perfect certainty, and merely
sits back to wait for the ripples of Heaven to come and replace the
ripples of hell, that once you created unwittingly?

Everyone, you see, is a minister. You cannot help but minister to the
world in each moment. Therefore, begin your ministry of Enlightened
Consciousness *now*! And I promise you this, absolutely, irrevocably: *You
will experience all that I have known, and more!* You will experience
complete victory over death. You will experience complete unlimitedness
and abundance. You *will* experience perfect peace, perfect miracle
mindedness, perfect unbroken communion in bliss with all of Creation!

Once, when I was a man, I was taught to sit at the base of a tree for
five minutes a day and to imagine myself to be the creator of all that I
could think, all that I could see, all that I could feel. Five minutes
taken out of the hours of play of a child. You are a child at play in
your own kingdom. Will you give yourself five minutes to learn to be a
Christ that creates in unlimited perfection in alignment with the Mind
of God, whose experience is always radiantly blissful and free of
limitation and fear? You will experience your creation. What that
creation is, and how you experience it, is entirely up to you.

This, then, will be the fulfillment of the message of this hour. And, as
you can see, it’s very much built upon the last. But it begins to
translate the Truth into an action — very simple, very practical — so
simple and so practical that you’ll be hard-pressed to find a reason
against it, an excuse. For those of you so busy trying to take care of
dealing with all the things life *throws* at you, even *you* know that you
can find five minutes. And that five minutes can be the beginning of
birthing a whole new universe for yourself.

Hmm — happy sitting! And with that, indeed, beloved friends, peace be
unto you always, by making the decision to choose to receive peace, as a
Christ. Herein lies the secret of much of what will be coming in what
you call your future months. For that which I specifically seek to do in
this specific work, that you know and call as Shanti Christo, is the
birthing of a multitude of Christs that dwell upon your planet Earth at
the same time. It has never been done before!

Imagine a world with *ten million awakened Children of God*, fully awake,
not just as a belief or an idea, but who have mastered fear, who no
longer live in doubt, whatsoever, and are busy creating universes that
mirror perfectly the Kingdom of Heaven. Imagine it — if you dare!

It begins *now*. Peace then, be unto you always. Practice well for your
next thirty days or your month period before we meet again. If not, you’ll
find yourself having to go back and start anyway, before you can receive
the next phase or the next stage, what will be shared. The choice is
yours.

Peace, then, be unto you always.

Amen.

---

## Question One

[*Question One*](/t/wom/woh/l09/q1/): Is it necessary, Jeshua, to go
to the other aspects of ourselves and ask forgiveness for errors that we
feel we have made?
{: .omit}

