---
title: "Lesson Ten"
---

<p class="tr_break">Now, we begin.</p>

And indeed, once again, greetings unto you, beloved and holy Children of
Light and of Love Divine. As always, I come forth to abide with you in
perfect trust, in perfect acceptance, and in perfect peace. As always, I
come forth to abide with you from that place which we share eternally as
the one and only begotten Son of God. I am, therefore, that Mind which
whispers to you in each moment of your inspiration. I am, indeed then,
that Mind that sneaks into your mind in the space between two fearful
thoughts and reminds you of the Truth that sets you free.

Once, I was a man — that is, just like you. I once turned my attention
and became identified with a unique being that was birthed in time and
faded away from time. And I walked upon your plane as all men and women
do. But as I walked upon your planet, I began to ponder the meaning of
Creation, the purpose of my very existence. And while others seemed to
be gleefully caught up in, or at least surrendered to, the ways of the
world, seeking out their momentary distractions, their attempts to gain
and control as much wealth as they could, and all of the rest, I would
often wander off alone, to sit beneath the trees beside a flowing
stream, to try to unlock the mystery that shows forth itself as the
beauty of a flower, to try to see the power that revealed itself as the
wind that would dance across the grasses, to count the sparkling
diamonds shimmering across the surface of a lake as the morning sun
arose to shine its light upon it.

And I began to learn to ask of that Source, that Mystery,

> Father, One that has birthed me, why am I? <br/>
> Where am I? <br/>
> Who am I?

My desire, then, increasingly became to know the Truth that could set
all mankind free. And I discovered that unless that freedom became fully
manifest in *me*, it made no sense to talk about it with others. And so I
sought out the greatest of minds, the best of teachers. And yes, I was
blessed by a family structure already dedicated to understanding the
mysteries of what they knew as God. And they led me to many such
teachers.

And as my own wisdom began to evolve, the teachers would look at me and
go,

> Hmm, something interesting is occurring here.

But there were already those who knew more about me than I knew yet
about myself — prophets, seers, astrologers, the wise ones of many
cultures, who knew already that into the framework of the *consensus mind*
of mankind, which you would call your *collective consciousness*, there
was to be dropped a pebble, into that still clear pool, that would
create ripples that would begin to change how the consciousness of
mankind perceived itself. I did not yet know these things for myself,
for the very birth into this world was yet veiled in mystery for me,
just as your birth was veiled in mystery for you, as you took on being
human.

And as I grew, I began to have revealed to me, in the depth of my silent
prayer, and in the depth of my very silent meditation, glimmers,
insights, recognitions, remembrances of other dimensions. I began to
develop the ability to be in communication with masters of my lineage
who had long since left the planet. I began to understand that
consciousness is not limited to the space and volume of a body, at all.
And as I watched the people in their busy work, I began to see that the
vast majority of beings totally confused *themselves* with the *body*. They
lived as if they dwelt within the body and, therefore, were imprisoned
in some strange way. They lived as if what occurred to the body occurred
to them. They lived as if they did not know that they could transcend
the body at any moment, that they could taste the vast expanse of
consciousness, that they could journey to other times and places with
little more than a surrendering of attention to the world they had made.

At first, I did not understand these things and I perceived myself to be
*quite odd*. And within me, there were conflicts, as the *fears* in my
consciousness arose, the fears that are part of the human consensus
reality, the conflict.

> Shall I remain like everyone else? Perhaps I should return to my
> father’s carpentry shop and simply accept that I am destined to just be
> a carpenter.

But there were other voices that spoke to me and called me, that would
come often in the night. And as I developed my ability to discern these
other realities, these other dimensions, by shifting my attention from
the world of the body to the world of inner vision, often they would
come in the night and stand beside my bed. And I came to know who they
were. I came to recognize the masters and teachers of a very ancient
lineage of which I was a part. And they would come and whisper to me,

> Forget not the purpose for which you are sent forth from the Mind of
> God, for through you there shall be birthed the beginning of an ancient
> remembrance. And your life shall become that which demonstrates to many
> the Truth that only Love is real.

<!-- Track t2 -->

The point of all of this is simple. I want to convey to you, yet again,
that the life I lived as a man was not unlike your very own. I began
veiled in mystery, a child among children, a human being, struggling to
make sense of his world. Yes, there was within me something calling, a
longing to know something that the world did not seem to teach. But is
it not true that many of you have felt that same call, that same longing
— to touch what is invisible, to see what cannot be seen, to hear what
ears have never heard, to embrace what arms cannot reach, to abide in
perfect peace and perfect trust?

Beloved friends, understand well, then, and I say to you yet again, that
I come only as your brother and your friend; one who has walked as you
walk, one who has breathed as you breathe, one who has cried as you cry,
one who has laughed as you laugh. *I am as you are.* And if there be
anything that I can give unto you, it is simply this: As you look upon
your life, and every event that unfolds within it, every time you feel
that you have failed, every time that you become conflicted, every time
you’re sure that you’ll never be able to transcend all of these ups and
downs and emotional waves that seem to come with living in your world,
remember, *I have overcome the world*. And because I have done it, *it is
done for you, already*.

And why? Because we share the same Infinite Field of Mind that far
transcends all levels, dimensions, of manifestation. You can tap into
what has already occurred. You need only look upon me as your brother
and friend, and *acknowledge* that the world has been overcome, and then
accept the *freedom*, which is the effect of its overcoming, *as your own*.

So that you learn to sit in your chair, after your five minutes of
abiding as Christ, in which you say to yourself,

> Here, I am free. Heaven is now. The past is passed away, and I choose
> anew. And, this day, I commit myself to teaching only Love by sharing
> only loving thoughts. This one day, I will look upon each one that comes
> into my experience and I will first breathe deeply the presence of the
> Holy Spirit. And I will look out through eyes transformed by the simple
> acknowledgment of the Truth: All minds are joined, and I see not a
> stranger before me, but one who walks as I walk, who feels as I feel,
> who longs as I long, who is humbled as I am humbled, who prays for peace
> as I have prayed. And therefore, I will give them what they seek. And in
> that giving, I receive it.

<!-- Track t3 -->

The way is *so simple* and *so easy* that the mind of the world overlooks it
— “It simply cannot be.” But that which is simple seems impossible to
that which insists on complexity. And a mind that insists on conflict
simply cannot accept that there is another way. And yet what waits
before you, then, is simply this: In the end of all of your struggles,
in the end of all of your doubts, and in the end of all of the moments
of your unconscious *conforming* to the mind of the world, there yet
remains the simple choice to be made, the choice to acknowledge the
Truth that has *already* set you free.

> I and my Father are One. It has been that way forever. ‘Twas
> accomplished in the being of Jeshua ben Joseph, who revealed to me the
> Truth of myself, because he loved me. And if he can do it, I can do it.
> And even in this moment, I accept my destiny to walk this Earth awake
> and at peace, in mastery and not in fear. And I begin my ministry now.

For who can you seek that can heal you? Who can you discover that can
bring some form of magic to you that can overcome your resistance to the
Truth? Look high and low and you will not find them. Seek forever, and
you will remain a seeker forever. For the Truth is set within your heart
and all power under Heaven and Earth is given unto you. It is *that* power
that changes the momentum of the mind and heals every wounded
perception.

In the end, then, of all seeking, you must look into the mirror and
decide to *be the one who heals* himself/herself. *You* are the one who
decides, from infinite freedom, how to use the power of your mind in
each moment. Therefore, the only question that a seeker of Truth really
truly need ask himself/herself is this:

> Would I know conflict or peace? Would I be right or happy? Would I see
> the complete neutrality of all events in this world as wisps of a dream,
> being birthed and passing away? Would I see myself whole and complete?
> For as I look upon the world, I have judged myself. And as I look upon
> myself, I judge the world.

This was the simple secret that I once discovered when I walked upon
your planet — that it wasn’t about achieving some grand mystical state
of consciousness. It wasn’t about acquiring great powers that could
attract the attention of thousands. It wasn’t even about being able to
manifest, although these powers may indeed often express themselves
through the mind as it awakens. It is about accepting the Truth that is
true always, and being determined to allow that Truth to be the
foundation from which you *enjoin* each and every moment of your
experience.

> I am awake. I am safe. I am at peace. What do I truly want this moment
> to be for? For as I decree it, so shall it be.

Beloved friends, the way is easy and without effort. You exist to extend
your treasure. And your treasure is that which is laid up in Heaven
through the decision to remember only your loving thoughts, to extend
only loving thoughts, to allow your actions to express or to manifest,
in the field of time, the good, the beautiful, and the holy. And *never*
is your freedom taken from you. Never in any circumstance do you lose
the innocent freedom to teach only Love, to be the presence of peace, to
recognize that the world can give you nothing, just as the world can
take nothing from you.

<!-- Track t4 -->

When a child goes through a shift of awareness — you call it the
maturation process — there comes a point, not by struggle, not by
design, not by much processing, not by any manner of strategies. The
child merely, in an instant, looks at the toys that he has been playing
with and simply transcends them. And the parents come home and the child
has taken the toy truck and put it away in the closet. Hmm. The doll is
put on the window sill and a book is picked up instead. Who makes the
change? No one outside that child.

And when you put aside any negative habit, as you would perceive it to
be, when you have given up placing value in something that no longer
serves you, you merely transcend it, and it is done with — no big deal,
no one does it for you, you simply decide. You pull back the *value* you
had placed on it, and the objects that were the symbols of what you were
*valuing* merely drop out of your life.

In just this way, unenlightenment can be put away as though it were a
toy that you have outgrown by merely looking at all of the effects of
unenlightenment, and then to ask the question,

> Is this what I wish to have continue as my experience? Or am I willing
> to put the doll on the window sill, and pick up a book instead?

A book that speaks of Life, a book that is filled with wisdom, a book
that teaches you how to step lightly in the world, to be in the world
but not of it. And *that book* is the depth of your consciousness in which
all things are already written. And that *depth* finds its source in your
heart. And you enter it, therein, through forgiveness, through the
process of *relinquishing* the world. Not hating the world, not despising
the world, but simply relinquishing it. You *allow* your time to serve you
in the process of relinquishing what does not serve you any longer, and
what only disturbs your peace.

And as you cultivate that practice you will find that the peace that is
already within you, that you’ve touched a thousand times in a million
different ways, begins to grow more constant — like the rays of the sun
beginning to filter through the fog that has settled into the mountain
valley, obscuring the clarity of all things. Your peace descends gently,
like a dove, descending, as some would say, through the crown, down
through the brain-mind, and down even to the heart, the abdomen, and
throughout the cells of the body, while the body lasts.

<!-- Track t5 -->

Gently relinquishing the world rests on your decision to choose to teach
only Love, because you have realized that when you don’t, the effect
that you know immediately is painful, it is conflicted, it is
unfulfilling, and that that is what you want no longer. Here, you have
begun to transcend the world that you have made and to reclaim the world
made for you, a world that rests in perfect union, in the union of
Father and Son, God and Offspring, Creator/Created. The way *is* easy and
without effort.

What value have you ever placed upon the world that has restored to you
the peace that you seek?

> Oh, this automobile will do it; this relationship will do it; this new
> career will do it. If only I can take a trip to the far corners of the
> world, then I will be at peace.

And so peace never quite comes.

A creator, abiding in enlightenment, knows that all events are neutral,
so neutral that they have no effect, except for those who choose to be
caught up in illusions. The creator, awakened, merely creates out of
devotion to the Mystery of That which has created him or her. The mind
of an enlightened creator does not arise in the morning and say,

> How can I survive yet another day in this world?

In the morning, when an enlightened creator arises, the question is,

> How, this day, might I extend the treasure of the good, the holy and the
> beautiful? How can I, right where I am, experience these treasures, even
> within the space and volume of this body? How can I look lovingly upon
> what my physical eyes show me, so that I discern or extract the good,
> the holy, and the beautiful, and therefore give them to myself?

The mind of an enlightened creator *knows* that *of themselves they do
nothing*. But in each moment of decision, they can *allow* the great power
and mystery of Love to direct their course. And they can begin to
utilize time to *refine* their ability to hear *only* the Voice for Love —
moment by moment, breath by breath, day by day, until time is translated
into eternity. And the mind rests, reclines, in its perfect union with
God.

Events still occur. The world is still what the world will choose to be,
unaware that there walks in its midst one who is *awake*, who needs to
make no show. They merely *are* the presence of wakefulness — knowing that
each moment they will now be *in*formed by the guidance of the Comforter,
the guidance of right-mindedness, the guidance of enlightenment, so that
they are no longer attached to fearing,

> What should I say? What should I do? How will this person take it? How
> will that person take it?

The world is no longer a concern.

And they experience their very life as an ongoing flowing mystery, as
though *something else* were living through them. And this is the meaning
of my friend’s words, “Let that Mind be in you which was in our Lord,
Christ Jesus,” as you would read in your bible. That Mind is the mind of
perfect freedom. It doesn’t belong to anyone, but it can be cultivated
to flow through you. But only, *only*, if every fiber of your beingness *is
wholly committed to holiness*. You can’t leave a finger outside and get
to Heaven. *All* of your mind, *all* of your energy, *all* of your gifts, *all*
of your very awareness must become committed to being the presence of
Peace. And *this* is what no one can do for you. Sitting at the feet of
enlightened teachers, listening to me on your tape or your video, will
not do it *for* you.

<!-- Track t6 -->

And the wisest of students are those that hear the word and put it into
practice, diligently, *for themselves*. Not for their mother, not for
their father, not for their spouse, not for their brother, not for their
sister, not for the sake of the planet, not for the sake of the
universe, not for the sake of the new dawn that is coming, not for the
sake of anything but *themselves*. For their Self is what God created. And
that Self calls out to you to *honor it*, by separating your Self from the
illusions that you have allowed to make a home in your mind, and being
*wholly committed to teaching only Love*.

There is no other way. Yes, you can learn to sit in meditation and allow
the mind and body to float free, to relax. Yes, you can learn rituals
that help to focus your attention so that you remember what you are
committed to, and the distractions of the world don’t seem to quite
catch you or hook you as much. There are many strategies that you can
enjoy and experience. But in the end, it is only this: a quiet choice
within, that no one recognizes, that no one sees, that no one hears.
This is why I once shouted at the Pharisees,

> Oh yes, well, you indeed get your reward standing on the street corners
> letting everybody know that you’re fasting and praying, when, indeed,
> you should go into your own closet to pray.

That is, to be in your own privacy, making not a show, but simply using
each moment to reaffirm your commitment to learning all that Love is by
teaching it. And by the word, *teach*, I mean simply that you choose to
*express* only Love in each moment.

<!-- Track t7 -->

Forgiveness is an act through which you learn what Love is, that carries
you into a transcendence of the world. Sharing only loving thoughts —
supporting thoughts — as you look gently upon the Christ in another, is
a way that takes you into the transcendence of the world. Looking upon
all things of this world and seeing their perfect harmlessness, their
lack of ability to constrain you or imprison you, is a way that takes
you beyond the world.

And yet all of these things rest on the practice of “seeking first the
Kingdom,” which means not to believe in me, not to have some theological
notion about what God is, not to adhere to a certain religion, or a
certain church doctrine. *The Kingdom of Heaven is within you.* It *is* the
very power of choice. Which pebble will you drop into the pool of your
consciousness?

Imagine reaching a point where, just prior to every action that you
engage, without ritual, without difficulty, without the grand shows and
displays, the burning of the much incense and the lighting of the forty
million candles, hmm, and all of the Gregorian chants or the rock and
roll, or whatever you choose — without *any* of it — in the silent temple
of your heart, you make a simple choice:

> In this moment, I am going to discover what it means to teach only Love.

It might be a simple smile. It might be to let your eyes gaze at the
beauty of a flower, and go,

> Aah, it is very good.

It might be to eat your breakfast and actually be there while you are
eating it, instead of letting your mind be running about to the office.

Here, beloved friends, is the way to the Truth that sets you free. *You
must absolutely become wholly committed to being awake for no other
reason than that you have realized you have no other choice* (you have
already made them all and they’ve only led to pain), that your Self is
calling out to be recognized for what it is — an awakened master, the
presence of Christ in you, that would inform every step, inform every
decision, inform the quality of your perception, inform the very nature
of your forever-expanding, transparent consciousness. For it is your
consciousness, alone, that can reach out and embrace all created things,
until you literally realize that *all things have arisen from within you*!

<!-- Track t8 -->

That’s how *big* you are! That’s how *grand* you are! And why? Because
that’s *all* you are! You are the ocean from which waves and waves of
dimensions and worlds have arisen. That Mind is what you are required to
let be in you, even as once it was within me, as I walked upon your
Earth. Do not make it difficult.

And whenever you hear of a teacher teaching this, or a teacher teaching
that, ask yourself this:

> Do they offer me simplicity or complexity? Do they offer an ordinary
> peace, or must I have several trappings around me? Do they give me
> complex meditations and prayers and things to do, or do they simply
> remind me of the Truth and ask me to rest in it? Will they tell me that
> I need to go on a thousand pilgrimages? Or do they remind me that when I
> make my cup of tea in the morning, Heaven is present, if I will remember
> who is making the tea?

Christ is.

Be you, therefore, not distracted. For in the end of this Age there is
coming forth a whole smorgasbord of those who profess to be teachers of
enlightenment, who will guide you into all knowledge. Look carefully and
see, do they demand of you that you follow them? Do they demand of you
that you give up your own discernment? Or do they egg you on to look
deeper within:

> What are you feeling? What do you think? What do you want to do? Are you
> willing to accept responsibility for the effect? What do you believe?
> What do you want? You are free. I am equal to you. I’m just in the role
> as a temporary guide for you and someday you’ll be far beyond me.

How do they speak? What do they teach? Is their fear filtering into
their words? Do they believe that they must teach you to control the
forces of nature, the forces of the mind? Do they teach you to protect
yourself against evil? There are many, and there will be many more. And
when you hear these things coming from them, turn and flee from their
presence! For you do not need them. You are already beyond them.

<!-- Track t9 -->

Ask only,

> How can I extend my treasure this day?

And lay up treasures where moth and dust cannot corrupt, that is, where
time and materiality and the body and the world cannot “hook you,” but
rather lay up treasures which are in Heaven: forgiveness, peace,
unlimitedness, recognition of your unlimited power, that which brings
you joy and puts a smile upon your countenance. Lay up for yourself
these treasures and all things shall be added unto you.

For there is a way of being in the world that requires no planning or
striving, though to enter it does require the relinquishing of fear. To
enter it requires a commitment to teaching only Love, until the mind is
again whole and undivided. There is a way of being in the world that
isn’t here at all. The body still abides. Yes, you still act just like
everybody thinks you act. That is, they know your name, they know where
you live. You know which car you’re supposed to drive, you know who you
go home to at night. But, through it all, there is pervaded in your
consciousness a transparency as you look upon all things.

And whatever feelings arise, come and go. But somehow you begin to
recognize that you are much larger than the things that come and go,
that you are watching a dance of shadows, a dream, gently passing by,
that is gone in a cosmic split second. This does not become a way in
which you *deny* your experience, but it gives you the freedom to *embrace*
it and *live* it, *totally*, with *passion*, with *purpose*, with *power*, and *in
perfect freedom* — no anxiety, no pressure, just the willingness to dance
in the world of dreams, while remaining *awake*. Hmm.

For those of you that are hearing this message in a consecutive manner,
if, indeed, you’ve been putting your five minutes into practice, you are
already carrying yourself closer and closer or, perhaps, more and more
deeply, into the transparency I’m describing for you. And that
transparency grows to a point, you might think of it as a critical mass,
when *suddenly* you as a *beingness* can no longer even hold the thought of
yourself as a body in space and time. And then the body simply dissolves
away. And your consciousness will never experience the limitations of
the body again. But you will bring the joys that bodily experience
taught you of with you. For they are imprinted in your consciousness
forever. This Earth is a beautiful place, but it is a pale reflection,
only, of the radiant, transcendent beauty of the good and the holy that
pervades my Father’s Creation. Love it, embrace it, thank it, but do not
cling to it.

<!-- Track t10 -->

Learn, then, to teach only Love. And now, by way of building on what
you’ve been doing, we would simply ask you to add this very simple
practice. When you sit in your chair for five minutes abiding as Christ,
remembering the Truth that has set you free, begin to ask yourself the
simple question,

> This day, how can I extend my treasure? How can I add to that which I am
> storing up in the Heaven of my consciousness?

Immediately, you’ll begin to get pictures — an old friend who needs a
phone call, someone to write a letter to. It could be something as
simple as picking up your cat, placing it upon your lap, and seeing all
of infinity in that living being, and feeling the joy that comes as you
run your hand along its fur. It could be something as grand as going to
your Washington, DC in order to send a blessing to your President. It
doesn’t matter what it is, because that Voice of Love will be guiding
your actions. It may be as simple as turning to your spouse and saying,
“You know, I appreciate you.” That’s all. Whatever it is, let that day
not fade away until that action is accomplished, or at least set into
motion.

So, you see, the great question is,

> Am I willing to trust the flow from my Father’s Mind, through my own, as
> that which empowers me to extend my treasure?

Yes, it does mean living unlike the way the world lives. Yes, it does
mean going against the grain. And you may seem to need to apply more
energy to it at first, as you get the momentum of your mind to turn in
another direction, to shake loose all of the sludge that has settled
into your consciousness.

But I can promise you, if you will take up such a path — simply,
joyfully, gently, patiently — *the end of your journey is certain*. If you
choose a path filled with magic and many complex strategies, the end is
not so certain. The way is easy and without effort.

> I am already That which I seek. I need only allow It to guide me. And
> while this body lasts, I will allow it to be a communication device that
> extends the treasure of perfect Love, perfect safety, and perfect peace
> to all who enter my house.

And your “house” is your field of energy, the expanse of your presence.

<!-- Track t11 -->

And lastly, we would suggest that you do this, especially those who will
be engaging this process in a consecutive monthly manner, to do this
until the time of what you call your Christmas celebration. Toward the
end of your five minutes, look at yourself from within your mind’s eye,
as though, from the last Christmas until this, you have journeyed around
a circle. You’ve journeyed through many astrological houses, many
influences of energy. You have engaged yourself in relationship with
countless brothers and sisters. You’ve had thousands of visions and
dreams and revelations come to your consciousness. You have had umpteen
million opportunities to be disturbed and lose your peace.

You have been like a sojourner, the prodigal son who has gone out
through the realms of human consciousness and *now* you see yourself
completing the circle. From the time you first hear this, count the days
until what you call your twenty-fifth of December. And let each day be
seen as a step, a pilgrimage, a completion of a very ancient circle. Let
each day be one in which you reaffirm your commitment to releasing
everything unlike Love in yourself, so that as you come to your December
twenty-fifth, you will dedicate yourself to being prepared for it.

And on December twenty-fourth you will go to bed early enough, and in
quiet and in prayer, so that you can awaken before the first rays of the
new day come to caress the Earth. And you will take yourself out of your
doors, even if you must bundle up the body, and you will make haste to a
place of vision, a place where you can look out over wherever you live,
and let that represent your ability to look out over all of Creation.
There, turn to face the direction of the arising sun, and go into a
simple prayer. Close your eyes. Realize that you see nothing through the
physical eyes anyway. Stand with the arms at the sides and the palms
open. Breathe deeply into the body, relax the mind, and begin simply to
say within yourself:

> Death has occurred, and now the birth of Christ is at hand.

Father, I accept fully Your Will for me.

And Your Will is only that I be happy and use time to extend my
treasure.

And now, I receive the warmth of Your Light and Your Love.

And then merely stand, and wait, and receive the warmth of the Light.
For rest assured, even if the skies are cloudy, as the sun arises, there
is a change in the energy of the air. And if you’re quiet, you can feel
how it begins to affect the energy sphere of your awareness and of your
body. Drink that solar energy in through every cell of your body. Drink
it in until you feel your very spinal column warmed. And when the whole
body — from the crown of the head to the tips of the toes and down
through each finger — is filled with Light, then gently open the *Eyes of
Christ*, and let yourself see *a new world, a new creation, a new
beginning*. Now the journey *to* the Kingdom is over, and the journey
*within it* can begin. Graduate school is just around the corner.

<!-- Track t12 -->

So, your instruction is given. And to those of you that may hear these
words in some distant time frame, the same Truth applies. Listen well to
what has been given, for we have been stepping into some very simple but
very powerful initiations, that were once given to me as I, too,
awakened to the Reality that *only Christ dwells within me*.

And with that, beloved friends, we will bring this hour to a close.
Listen *well* to all that has been shared. Do not take it, shall we say,
“lightly,” although it is only filled with Light. Consider well each
phrase, each sentence, and even the pauses between the words. For in
those silent pauses, revelations can come. *It is time to birth fully the
presence of the peaceful Christ within you!*

And when you journey back down to your home on that December
twenty-fifth morning, do something that celebrates *your* birthday. Not
mine, yours. I can handle taking care of my own celebration. And then be
joyous and celebrate in whatever way you wish. And know that the New
Age, the New Day, has dawned. And never again will you ever be able to
convince yourself that there is an excuse for believing in anything that
is less than an *Enlightened Christed Consciousness*.

Peace, then, be unto you always. And *always* am I with you.

Amen.

---

## Question One

[*Question One*](/t/wom/woh/l10/q1/): Can you elaborate on the
importance of our natal charts and the different influences and energies
that transits in astrology bring?
{: .omit}

---

## Question Two

[*Question Two*](/t/wom/woh/l10/q2/): I recently saw a friend’s heart
with my inner eye. And the symbol was a beautiful Cross of Light. I
would like you to elaborate on the symbology of the cross.
{: .omit}

---

## Question Three

[*Question Three*](/t/wom/woh/l10/q3/): Can you talk about
initiations, and passing through them, and, then, having similar
energies represent themselves again at a different level of the spiral?
{: .omit}

