---
title: "Lesson Eleven"
---

Now, we begin.

Indeed, greetings unto you, beloved friends. Join with me in this
moment. Join with me in this hour. Join with me in the place where,
alone, two minds *can* join. For the body cannot bring you to where I am,
as it cannot bring you to where your Beloved is. Join with me, then, in
the silent place of the Heart in which all wisdom already abides. Join
with me, then, in this moment, in the place prepared for us of our
Creator, before time is.

Join with me, by choosing *now* to allow your attention to relax from the
things of the world. Allow the eyes to gently close, as a symbol of your
willingness to set aside your involvement with, and your attachment to,
the things of this created world. Join with me, by allowing the body to
be set free. This requires only that you make no demands upon it.
Indeed, let it settle in, as though it were becoming again the dust of
the ground from which it came.

Join with me, as you let your attention recede from the world around
you. Begin to notice the thoughts that seem to stream through the mind.
Join with me by moving ever yet deeper, as though you were allowing your
attention to settle down, down, into the Heart. And as the thoughts
would seem to stream through the mind, can you tell from whence they’ve
come? Can you tell where they’ve gone? They arise in a moment and fade
away in a moment, while *you* continue to relinquish your attachment to
all things of the world.

Verily I say unto you, even the thoughts that arise and stream through
the mind, ceaselessly, are of the world. Settle down, then, abiding in
the gentle quiet of the Heart. You do not cause the physical heart to
beat and send the blood through the body. It simply knows, and it does.
You do not cause the breath to flow through the body. It arises and
passes away. It does not require your attention.

And in this moment, is it you that keeps the stars in the sky above you?
Is it you that keeps your beautiful planet, your Earth, spinning,
hurtling through space, around and around your central Sun, never
deviating very much at all from the same orbit it’s been in since its
creation? Must you attend to the quiet unseen way in which the flowers
outside your window are growing? Can you hear the sound of the grass as
it grows?

Somewhere, in this very moment, a child has been birthed. Are you aware
of it? Indeed, all of Creation continues to go on, an eternal dance,
mystery giving birth to mystery, returning to mystery, without ceasing.
And yet, you simply abide in a quiet place within the sanctuary of the
Heart. Join with me now in perfect peace. Join with me where alone we
can remember that we are together. Give up all hope of directing
yourself to me by taking thought. Join with me in the simple
understanding that *of yourself you can do nothing*. Join with me by
surrendering into the Truth of a union beyond *all* comprehension. Settle
deeply into the quiet sanctuary of the Heart *we share*.

That Heart is the depth and the essence of the Creator’s *only* creation.
And that creation is Pure Mind, Pure Being, Pure Intelligence, the
fulfillment of all wisdom, the depth of all compassion, the *certainty* of
every purpose under Heaven. Rest with me, join with me, and acknowledge
that our minds are joined. And as you rest, again, you might notice that
thoughts seem to arise and pass away. But do you not sense them, now, as
though they were coming from a place where you are not, as though you
had sunk more deeply to a place of quiet beneath the surface upon which
thoughts flow back and forth without ceasing?

<!-- Track t2 -->

Are you, then, the thoughts? No, you are not. Are you even the thinker
of the thoughts? No, you are not. You are merely that quiet, and that
presence, that observes all of Creation flowing through a field of
awareness which *is* the Mind of Christ. 

Unlimited forever, are you. Unchanging forever, are you. Perfectly changeless,
are you. And we are of one substance, one Light, and one Truth. Here alone,
does reality reside. Here alone, is reality remembered. Here alone, Love reigns
supreme. Here alone, is where you are

And in this place, that is everywhere at once, and in this eternity,
that embraces every moment of time, what do we discover? What is it that
we share? It is not a body. For bodies are limited, being temporary
expressions of the coalescence of thought. It is not the body that we
can share. Look yet more deeply. Is it the thoughts that still dance
upon the surface far above you? No. What is it, then, that binds us one
to another, *as* one another? Is it not the *silence* and the *awareness* of
the *One* Who observes the arising and passing away of all created things?

I share with you the depth of a perfect silence. I share with you a
wisdom supreme. I abide *as you are* — the thought of Love in form. To be
in form does not mean to be a body. It means only that That Mind, which
is the reality of Love’s existence, truly abides within each of us
*equally*. And if this were not so, you could not recognize me. And when I
speak a word, or a sentence, or a paragraph that resonates within you as
being the Truth, you could not know it was so, if that Truth did not
already live within you as the reality of your very existence.

Remain with me now. Heed not the call of that part of the mind that
would distract you and lead you back to the illusions that comprise your
world. Here, there are no mates, no careers, no loss, no gain, no pain,
no suffering. Here alone, the Truth remains a shimmering within you.
Here is where I am. And this Heart that we share is not contained within
your body. Rather, the body has emerged from within the power that
resides in this Holy Place. It has provided for you only a temporary
learning experience. It will be there when you return, should you desire
it.

But for now, give yourself permission to rest into the Heart of all
Creation — the still and silent place of Perfect Peace. What is it that
we share, if not awareness itself? For here, if anyone were to look,
they would see there is no difference between you and myself. You are a
Shimmering Field of Awareness. And that same Shimmering Field comprises
the essence of *All* that I am.

And within this Awareness lies the answer to every question you might
choose to ask. Within this Shimmering Awareness is the reassurance that
the end of the journey is certain. Within this Shimmering Awareness do
you abide *at One* with all minds and every aspect of Creation. Join with
me here, often, in remembrance of me. For this is the secret of
communion — to relinquish the perception of the world in favor of the
acknowledgment of Reality.

<!-- Track t3 -->

Mind reaches out forever, but it reaches only to *Itself*. Therefore,
every word that I share with you is already present within you. Here,
does Love abide, alone. And there is no space for anything unlike Love.
This is why every loving thought is true, for it arises not from the
superficial or the surface level of the mind that generates thoughts
merely in reaction to other thoughts. But Love emerges from the *depth of
the heart* that transcends what you know to be your body and your mind,
your feedback mechanism.

*When you think a loving thought, you have been caressed by the touch of
God.* When you hear not loving thoughts within yourself, this can mean
only that you have returned to the surface, and have denied the depth
within you. If you would, then, hear only loving thoughts, simply
observe where your attention is, and allow it to settle deeply into this
place, beyond time, beyond the body, beyond the dream of the world. For
this place, the Kingdom of Heaven within you, is vast beyond
comprehension. The world you know, when you take your attention to the
surface of the mind, is contained within it, and embraced within this
Heart, like a dewdrop begins to be consumed by the ocean that receives
it.

Here then, beloved friends, is the place of all certainty. Here, the
place of perfect power to fulfill the loving thoughts with which your
Creator has caressed you. Here, the way to fulfill each loving vision.
Here, the source of all wisdom upon which you can draw to recreate
yourself to *be* the presence of Christ Incarnate. Here then, is the
straight and narrow path that leads unto Life. For Life is beyond every
concept you have ever heard, even those that I have used to communicate
with you. They have been like so many fingers, pointing at the moon that
shines its light gently upon you. That Light lives in the depth of a
Silent Heart. Therefore, *Silence is the doorway to Wisdom Divine*.

<!-- Track t4 -->

Remain with me here. Do not think on what you hear, but allow it to pour
through you, knowing that the vibrations of Wisdom that these words
carry will *leave their trace* upon you, without the least bit of effort
on your part. You need only be as a *lover* to the Mind of God — *opening,
allowing, receiving* — taking in that which your Creator would bestow
upon you. Remain with me in the depth of this Perfect Silence. Notice
how you begin to feel a gentle spaciousness, a peace descending upon
you, like a gentle dove — and yet, you have done nothing. And again,
should you feel your attention being pulled back to the surface of your
awareness, merely choose again, and return to the quiet of the Heart.

> I am loved; I am loving; I am lovable, forever.

Let this phrase be as a stairway that descends from the world of your
making to the depth of Perfect Peace. You need repeat it only when you
notice that you’ve become temporarily distracted by the sights and
sounds and images of the world around the body, as well as the thoughts
that seem to stream and dance along the surface of what you would call
the brain center.

> I am loved; I am loving; I am lovable, forever.

And as you come to feel grounded, rooted in, that deep and silent place,
*ask whatsoever you will* and its answer shall not be hidden from you. Ask
to witness my lifetime as I walked upon your Earth, and it will be shown
you. Ask to be shown the vibrational field in which you were conceived
in this life; it will not be hidden from you. Ask whatever you would
about a friend, who perhaps has seemed troubled of late, and the source
of what is occurring within them will be gently revealed to you. For
remember that, in this place, you are Awareness Itself, merely becoming
aware of Itself. And that Awareness, that Consciousness, lives *equally*
as the *essence of each and every one* whom you know and love. And your
love *of them* is what binds you *to them*, in the depth of a quiet
Awareness.

But as you descend the stairway to the quiet place of the Heart, there
are a few things to leave behind you: the need to be right, the need to
be supported in your illusions, the fear of rejection, abandonment,
denial, and death. Leave behind you every thought of what the world is
and what it is for. Leave behind you every thought you have ever held of
everyone and everywhere.

Surrender, relinquish the world of your perceptions, and come quietly to
kneel before your Creator. And there, in the silent place of the Heart,
unattached to whatever is given you or shown to you, *nothing* will be
kept secret. Would you know the foundations of the world? The answer is
here. Would you know how to best direct Love to a loved one? The answer
is here. And a Voice will speak to you, like one crying from the
wilderness. Pictures will be shown you, feelings enlivened within you,
and you will know that way to extend your treasure.

<!-- Track t5 -->

Remain with me here, for here do I abide. And the only difference
between us is that, occasionally, you believe that you abide somewhere
else. And when you journey up those stairs, to begin to be distracted by
the thoughts on the surface of your mind, and by the sensory feedback of
the energy field that comprises your physical creation, I remain in our
shared Heart, patiently waiting for your return.

Remain with me here.

> I am loved; I am loving; and I am lovable, forever. 
> <span class="tr_normal">This is the truth
> that sets me free.</span> I Am That I Am. My awareness knows no limitation and
> all worlds arise within me. I Am That Mind, present in all beings when
> they descend the stairway and embrace the Truth that alone is true
> always. Here, perfect peace. Here, the recognition that nothing is
> lacking. Here, the embrace of the fulfillment of the Love I have sought
> in all the wrong places. Here alone, do I abide. Here alone, do I
> remain. I Am That One, existing before all worlds. This alone, is the
> Truth about me.

These words are not mine, they are *ours*. And we share in them, equally.

> I am loved; I am loving; I am lovable, forever. I Am That I Am.

And out of the depth of that Perfect Silence, and the remembrance of
that Perfect Knowledge, there comes the impulse of a loving thought:

> Take Me into form. Take Me into space and time. Reveal Me to the world.

Your life can become, whenever you choose it to be so, merely the
process of Christ’s incarnation. Relinquish the world, even as you walk
through it. Surrender it, with every breath. Learn to cultivate the
depth of this *knowing* in the midst of all activities in which the body
is used as a temporary learning and teaching device.

Beloved friends, abide with me in this Union. And regardless of what the
eyes of the body show you, regardless of what the ears of the body hear,
regardless of the “harmless” thoughts that seem to dance across the
surface of the brain-mind, you abide where I am, *in*formed by that Love
from which there has been birthed the sun, the moon, and all of the
stars of Heaven, the planets in their orbits, and all dimensions within
our Father’s Creation. You can realize the incarnation of Christ by
coming to dwell in the Heart of Christ, until every step and every word
and every gesture flows from this deep and silent and perfect place,
until Its Voice is the only one upon which you act.

And even as the thoughts of the world stream through your brain-mind,
and even as the sensory data are received through the cellular
structures of the nervous system of the body, yet you can relinquish
these things, and act only from that depth of Perfect Wisdom, Perfect
Safety, and Perfect Peace. 

<!-- Track t6 -->

This is the month of your “Thanksgiving” as
it is called. Will it be that month in which you truly give thanks for
the Grace that sets you free? Will you honor that Grace by descending
the stairway to the quiet places of the Heart in each of your days?

> I am loved; I am loving; and I am lovable, forever. I Am That I Am.
> Infinite Awareness — birthless, deathless — That which embraces the
> dream of space and time, and looks lovingly upon all harmless and
> neutral events. And even the body is no longer mine. It merely arises
> and passes away, while I, the Creator of all Creation, inform it with
> the awareness of Perfect Forgiveness, Perfect Peace, and the fulfillment
> of Love. Yea, though I walk through the valleys of space and time, fear
> arises not within me. For all good things are in my safekeeping, stored
> where moth and dust cannot corrupt, where thieves cannot break in to
> steal. Here alone, is the treasure that I seek no longer because I have
> found!

Abide here with me, until the hour comes when you know that you will go
out no more from our Father’s Holy Place. That Place is this Depth of
Peace that abides wherever you are as the very Heart and Essence of your
reality.

> I am loved; I am loving; and I am lovable, forever.

This I give you as a divine meditation and way of prayer. Perfect it!
Live it! Drink it in! Embrace it! Devour it! Become it! For in this
*becoming* you will merely *remember* what has always been true since before
the arising of all worlds. As a bird returns to rest in its nest, as the
melting snow becomes a river that flows into the depth of a silent
ocean, as the sound, the song of a flute descends gently upon your own
ears — you — the creator of the notes -- so too be you, therefore, wise as
serpents and dissolve into this depth of the Truth of your being often,
until you abide here in every *where* and every *when*.

And when the body steps upon the Earth, and when the vocal chords are
used to form words, the touch of the foot upon the Earth will remind you
of Christ’s blessing. And the words that shape themselves will teach
only Love. Here then, beloved friend, is the essence of all that I would
extend to you in this day and in this hour.

<!-- Track t7 -->

Utilize the remainder of your time of this hour’s communication to
practice gently descending and ascending upon the Ladder of Awareness.
Give yourself permission to ascend, to notice the thoughts that stream
through the mind. Hear the sounds around you. Feel the weight of the
body in the chair where you sit, and then descend again. And abiding yet
a little while, then again choose to ascend. Listen to the sounds around
you, the beating of the physical heart. Shift the weight of the body.
Notice the thoughts that stream through the surface of the mind.
Relinquish these things, and descend again, gently ascending and
descending. For as you do so, you will join both poles together. And you
will cultivate within yourself the awareness and the spiritual power
necessary to be *in the world but not of the world*.

Can there be a greater accomplishment than this? Can there be anything
that can offer to you a greater fulfillment than to be the conduit
through which Infinite Awareness and Power flows with every breath,
every gesture, every spoken word — to reveal Christ to the world through
you? What could you ever value greater than this?

Enjoy, then, your hour. And know that when you descend to that place of
the Silent Heart within you, I will greet you and I will sit with you,
in the depth of that Silence. And our minds and our hearts and our souls
shall merge as One. And when you ascend, you take me with you. And when
you descend, you drink me into yourself, until finally there is no
difference between us. And when the world looks upon you, they will say,

> Behold, I am in the presence of something mysterious, something
> attractive, something vast and peaceful and filled with power. Surely,
> this is the Child of God!

And now, from that Mind that we share as One, I say again unto you,

May peace walk with you, and my blessings I give unto you, not as the
world gives, give I the Voice for Christ that longs to be your voice.
For the world gives and takes away, but my Love is with you forever. Let
this Love become your very own. Claim it. Own it. Taste it. Drink it.
Breathe it. Walk it. Talk it. Incarnate it!

And though I go now, to recede into Silence, yet do I walk with you on
the way that you will choose, that it might become a way that extends
the treasure of your Perfect Knowledge that you are loved, that you are
loving, and that you are lovable, forever. That you are, indeed, That
Which You Are. And you cannot be anything else! Gently touch each moment
with what you bring from what you discover in the depth of your
descension into the Heart of Christ.

Peace be with you always and light your way while yet you abide within
the world. You are, indeed, sent forth as That One who holds all power
to extend the treasure of Truth. Be you, therefore, That Which You Are —
and you *are* the stars that light the heavens and bring radiance to the
things of time.

> Go you, therefore, into all the world and bless it with the Radiance of
> the Christ within you.

And if ever you need to know where you should be, descend to that Depth.
And when you ascend, open the eyes and bless the place you are. And in
this is your purpose fulfilled.

Peace be unto you always.

Amen.

---

## Question One

[*Question One*](/t/wom/woh/l11/q1/): I would like to hear Jeshua
address the following issue brought to my attention by one who does not
embrace our path or beliefs.  This person quotes, “The message from
Jeshua tends to privatize spirituality and right action. One could
easily forget or rationalize away one’s responsibility to the poor and
oppressed.”
{: .omit}

---

## Question Two

[*Question Two*](/t/wom/woh/l11/q2/): I understand that the path of
the poor and oppressed is their path. However, when and how will they
understand, comprehend, that they are not victims? And how can they,
too, participate in embracing ascension? Do we have a responsibility to
bring the message, help them spiritually and physically to throw off the
bonds? I feel a need to share the Love. How is this to be done?
{: .omit}

---

## Question Three

[*Question Three*](/t/wom/woh/l11/q3/): Jeshua, how does one teach a
young child peace and Love when they’re acting out their fear and anger?
{: .omit}

