---
title: "WOK Lesson Two - Question One"
contents: "wok"
---

### Way of Knowing, Lesson Two: Question One

Jeshua, could you help us define *Knowledge* or *Knowing*?

---

### Answer

Certainly. Knowing or Knowledge is an immediate quality of
feeling. It transcends symbols. Knowledge is the result of revelation,
and revelation is always intensely personal. That is, revelation flows
across the gap that has seemed to exist between the Mind of God and the
mind of the soul, or the Created. It cannot be mediated by symbols,
since symbols are removed from Reality.

If you were to try to describe your revelation, you must immediately
move into the realm of ideas and words. Words are symbols of symbols,
and are thus twice removed from Reality. Ideas are what words are
symbols of. Reality is unmediated. It is immediate. All of you have had
many, many revelations. In an instant you simply see and know,

> Ah! I see. I know. Ah!

Then you let it go. If someone were to ask you,

> Well, what just happened?

then comes the *art* of trying to communicate through the mediation of
words and ideas to give some sense of the revelation.

This is why even the greatest of your mystics, the greatest of your
teachers, have tried to utter in words the essence of their revolution,
or revelation of awakening (indeed, it is a revolution, too). Everything
that I ever said, when I walked the earth as a man, anything that I have
ever said to you, is the *artful attempt* to use symbols to point you in
the direction of some *feeling* of the revelation that has occurred within
my own mind of Christ. It’s just the way it is; there’s not much you can
do about it. The attempt to communicate requires communion. And a
teacher seeks the art-filled, art-guided way of evoking a state of
communion between his and her mind and the mind of the student, in order
to transfer the essence of revelation.

Knowing, then, has nothing to do with theology, religion, or a single
text that has ever been given. Knowing, or Knowledge, is *immediate*. It
is a Knowing by *being* that which the mind would seek to know.

When you touch Christ Mind, *you know it*. Because all of your beingness,
the mind, the emotions, the physiology of the body — everything changes
and comes into alignment. And in that moment, there is *no possibility* or
even memory of *fear*. There is *nothing* but simply being present. It is
timeless, it is eternal, it is peaceful.

Therefore, indeed, beloved friends, come to understand that *Knowing is
what you seek*. And yet, Knowing does require that you begin by
acknowledging that you are Christ. Remember always that this is the
first and most fundamental act of purification. Your mind will tell you,

> No, I’m a wretched sinner. No, I’m not there yet.

That is egoic thinking. You must notice it and say,

> No. That cannot be the Truth of me. The Truth of me is that I am the
> Holy Son of God — now.

You’ve dropped a pebble in the pond that creates ripples that will
dissolve the patterns of fear that you once created to replace the
Truth.

Knowing and Knowledge has nothing to do with belief. It is beyond belief
— quite literally to the world mind. Knowing and Knowledge has nothing
to do with theology or religion. It has everything to do with Reality.

That should be sufficient for now. We would suggest that you think
deeply about what was said. It, in itself, will drop pebbles in the pond
that help dissolve the resistance to Knowledge.

