---
title: "WOK Lesson Two - Question Two"
contents: "wok"
---

### Way of Knowing, Lesson Two: Question Two

Over the years we have seen many people who appear to get
right to the crux of their blocks, and then they stop. After, they will
pull away. And sometimes there can be projection, the forming of “glee
clubs,” and even outright attack. Could you speak to what’s occurring
there, as well as the best way to deal with it?

---

### Answer

Well, indeed, beloved friend, I *never* experienced this when I
was on the planet! Hmm.

Remember, always, that the world is the attempt of mind to create a
*substitute* for the Kingdom of Heaven, to create a substitute for
Reality. It is the *misuse* of power. It is a *waste* of the very gift that
the Creator gives to the Created. It is *extremely* important to remember
that as you walk the Earth, in the world (and there’s a distinction
between the world and the Earth: the *world* is what mankind has made in
error), as you literally walk down your street, you are walking through
a *field of illusion* in which fear seems to dominate. When everyone is
fearful, everyone will believe that everyone is sane and normal. It is
just taken to be the norm. And yet, the world is the opposite of the
Kingdom.

Why is this important? Where fear has made a home in the mind, where any
mind has become entranced with fear and doesn’t even know it, it will
cling to the foundational structure of belief upon which it is based:

> I am guilty. I am separate from God. This is why I have to manipulate
> you, because I can’t trust God. I won’t find my security unless I 
> figure out how to shape the world to give me what I think I need.

Fear has many stepchildren. They are all vicious. And in the world you
will encounter viciousness. You encounter it right now a thousand times
*every day* — the store clerk who seems to be absent or not present with
you as you put your groceries on the counter; the driver who honks at
you because you are going three miles an hour slower than he or she
wants you to. All of these are expressions of the insanity of fear. For
where there is Love, there is a willingness to show up and be wholly
present in the body-mind. Where Love is present, there is patience,
trust, allowance, graciousness. The world you live in is permeated by
fear — it’s what made the world in the first place. Never deny this.

What then happens is this. *The first part of the mind which engages the
spiritual journey is the ego.* It is the ego that first decides to listen
to a tape of Jeshua ben Joseph. It is the ego that first opens to my
presence. It is the ego that first picks up *A Course in Miracles*. Why?
Because the ego is what is in charge. It has tried everything else. It’s
coming close to the time of its death and dissolution. And therefore, it
looks upon spirituality as the one last-gasp attempt to *gain power and
control*.

*The ego always speaks first.* So, you’ll read a paragraph in *A Course In
Miracles*, and immediately start thinking about it, immediately start
pontificating about it. That’s nothing but the ego! Those that would
puff themselves up with many words *about* the *Course* are usually those
least interested in *living* the *Course*. Do you see?

Therefore, what occurs is this. As any mind begins its “grand spiritual
journey,” what it’s really being run by is the seeking for experiences
that *it* has decided will *feel good*. Now, it will begin to have some
experiences. It will go to workshops. It will read the *Course*. And guess
what? The Holy Spirit seduces it. It does have moments of dissolution,
little deaths, “Oh!” Spirit breaks through the ego. So the ego is
attempting to use something for its own good, not even realizing that
it’s the very thing the Holy Spirit will eventually succeed at using in
destroying the ego, the grip the ego has on the mind.

However, imagine that you are the defender of a castle. And around the
castle you have five thousand acres. Now, out there in the fringes of
your dominion, your kingdom, there are a few small hamlets. When the
enemy comes to attack your castle, and you first hear that the enemy is
amassing at your borders, there’s a little fear:

> Well, okay. So we’ll give it a few hamlets. Big deal. We’ll let 
> Genghis Khan have the hamlet at the furthest edge.

But the closer Genghis Khan comes to the castle, the more ferocious
Genghis Khan seems to be, the more the ramparts are pulled up, the more
the soldiers come to line the fortress, the more you prepare yourself
with your cannons, machine guns, and what have you. You’ll do anything
to defend the heart of the castle.

Now, in Truth, there was never a Genghis Khan. There were merely angels
on white horses coming to bring the petals of Love and healing, coming
to teach you that you need not build fortresses at all, that you can let
the castle go and live in the meadows in the Father’s Kingdom. However,
those angels are turned into ferocious monsters that look like Genghis
Khan and,

> Surely, they’re out to destroy me.

Never underestimate the viciousness of the ego. This will happen time,
and time, and time, again. As, on the one hand, the egoic mind that says
it’s on a spiritual path will engage its practices and — oh my! — it
will just talk and talk and talk and talk, and read and study, and
travel, and do workshops. It will do all of these things, never
realizing that it is really about trying to defend its inner castle —
the place where the ego is still in authority.

And as Love begins to penetrate and take over the hamlets, it gets
closer and closer. And sometimes, the heat is too much. The power of the
ego is still too strong and it pushes Love away. Now, how do you push
Love away? By *calling it* something else. By seeing it as Genghis Khan:

> How dare you ask me to question my own views on sexuality! Why, I know
> the truth! This is the way it must be!

And then, that very mind will go to a workshop and hear about denial,
projection, attack. It will hear all these nice theories and it will go,

> Yes, yes. Ha, ha, ha, ha! Oh, yes. Well, hmm, hmm, hmm.

But boy! When its own inner castle is threatened, and reactivity rears
its head, and it sends its soldiers to the wall to keep Genghis Khan out
...

It takes much, much experience in the pathway of purification to come to
recognize that *where there is reaction, there is fear. What is not Love
is fear*, and nothing else. At any time, when you have enmity with a
brother or sister, that is, you’re getting your buttons pushed, you’ve
got a problem or an issue ... when you do not go to them directly, but
rather seek out others to talk to, you will seek an accomplice — what
you have called a “glee club”:

> Let’s get together and sing the chorus of what’s wrong with that person over
> there. This way, we both get to be right.

At any time that you think you have an issue with someone, and you do
not go to them directly to discuss it with openness, to discuss it with
the goal being growth and learning, you may rest assured that you have
rushed into your castle and sent your soldiers to the wall. And you are
*delaying* your healing and awakening. Any time you seek an accomplice,
you have lost and the ego has won. Because why? Because fear has won!

> Oh, gee. I’ve really had this issue. Gosh, what you did is really
> pushing my buttons. But I’m not going to talk to you about it. I’ll go
> find somebody else who’s also had their buttons pushed. We’ll get
> together and discuss what’s wrong with you, so we get to be safe.

Where? Inside the castle of illusion.

So, as Love penetrates the veils, the hamlets, of the kingdom of the
ego, it gets closer to the castle. The ego seeks to fortify its
boundaries. Why? Because the ego is fear itself.

It takes *much* experience — *much* maturity — at *truly owning* that what’s
occurring under your skin is yours. Are you committed to Love and
healing and growth? Or are you committed to keeping the status quo in
place? Fear grips you [snaps fingers] that fast! It causes all manner of
reactivity, projection, attack. That’s just the viciousness of the
insane ego.

Now this has occurred, as you know, in the nature of your journey with
me, for the two of you specifically over the last nine years, many
times. Why? Because your work, both within yourselves, and therefore
within the outer work, the service that you give to others, is *about*
dissolving the castle. That is what the essence of Shanti Christo is:
*dissolving the deepest, innermost bastion of strength in which the ego
is running the show*.

This work that I engage with you in is *the deepest work possible*. It is
*only* about the Atonement. The Atonement is not to make you feel good. It
is literally to purify the mind of the grip of the ego, so that God can
possess, if you will, your mind, your life, your being — so that you can
return to being a creator of the good, the holy, and the beautiful.

This means, first of all, that this work attracts those who are at
various stages of their desire to awaken. Many of them are at the egoic
stage. What is the egoic stage of spirituality? It is that stage in
which the ego knows it’s tried everything else. It’s tried to make
money. It’s had relationships. It’s done its drugs in your culture. It’s
had too many hours of TV. It’s tried *everything* to stay in power, and it
perceives that perhaps in the “spiritual life” it will finally gain the
power it seeks over what it perceives to be Genghis Khan on the borders
of its dominion.

Therefore, many will first be attracted to my message, through this, my
beloved brother — through the various forms of the work that I have
guided you to learn, to become skillful in. But the first level of
attraction is always *the seeking of a new power*. The rattles will come
when the hamlets begin to be attacked. And depending on the strength
that the ego has — no matter how much so-called spiritual journeying one
has done — the strength of the ego within the castle will be perceived
by those who pull away, by those who need to project and attack, those
that need to form glee clubs — these are *signs*. They can merely teach
you to learn more deeply the subtle nuances of how egoic consciousness
works. This, in turn, improves your ability to teach.

This is why whenever you feel attacked, what matters first of all is to
recognize the mechanics that are at play.

> Oh! If someone’s attacking me, they must be in fear, since there is only Love
> or fear. If there is an issue that I know they have, and they’re not coming to
> talk to me about it, this only shows how deeply fear is actually running their
> life.

Now, the first thing, then, is *compassion* and *prayer*. Hmm? Seeing them
as healed, seeing them as whole, asking for guidance,

> Should I go speak to them?

Yes. No. The Holy Spirit will let you know.

The second thing is, if I’m *feeling* attacked, let me drop *them*, bring
attention back to myself,

> What’s feeling attacked in me?

For only egoic consciousness can *be* attacked. Christ cannot be attacked
— it’s impossible. Christ just laughs. Christ may choose to take the
body-mind away from those who are dangerous to the body-mind, but *Christ*
never feels attacked. So it’s a great offering, and in this sense
they’ve become your savior — not because they’re enlightened, but
because you can use the situation to more deeply see what *you* may yet be
afraid of.

Now, what’s the crux of all this? Anyone who truly wants God will seek
out situations of teaching and learning that literally create a context
for the greatest fire, the greatest purification, the greatest heat.
Why? Because they want to get the gold melted down so it can be reshaped
by the Hand of God.

If you are not experiencing other minds saying that you’re wrong, if
you’re not experiencing other minds being activated by the life you’re
living, you better take another look. What’s really running you? Are you
afraid to speak and live your truth? Are you afraid to choose Love over
fear? Are you afraid to look different to other minds? True meekness
stands out like a sore thumb, for the meek know that they do not know.
The meek trust the Holy Spirit. The *ego* is out to get others to like it.
The *soul* wants only God.

Therefore, remember that when you are being attacked, you have, in the
palm of your hand, a great gem that is totally priceless. For you can
deepen your own embodiment of Christ Consciousness. You can learn more
deeply the subtle nuances of how egoic consciousness dominates the mind,
whether yours or another’s. You can learn and learn and learn, and
thereby become a greater teacher, capable of serving the Atonement.

Now, to come back to our analogy of Genghis Khan attacking the kingdom,
think of all things as a vibration of energy. When two people come
together in relationship, or when ten thousand come together, they come
together because there’s a certain level of accord or resonance. Now
Genghis Khan can come so far into the kingdom and everybody in the
kingdom and in the castle is relatively okay:

> Yes, yes. Well, the war is out there on the farthest reaches of our
> kingdom. We can still party. Isn’t this great? Oh, yes. Ha, ha, ha!

Genghis Khan comes closer. And now, every mind must make a choice:

> What am I committed to?

If, for example, there is conflict in a relationship, if one mind in the
relationship refuses to go to the other and say:

> Gosh, I’m really having this issue. We need to go into this because I
> recognize that if I have an issue, there’s something here that I need to
> learn.

If they’re not willing to do that, they’ve reached their edge, what you
have called the “crux of their obstacle.” They’ve looked within, the
situation has flushed something up, but now, they make a choice —
without even knowing that they’ve made it. Their choice is to defend
their castle. They will then spin out and leave you. They’ll spin out
and form glee clubs, they’ll project, they’ll attack, whatever it is.
It’s all harmless insanity. It only means that they’ve missed an
opportunity and will have to come back around at another time, through
more painful experiences, to look at the very issue that they aren’t
willing to go through. They’ve come to their edge of their ring of fear.
And fear has won the day.

That’s their loss. But it need not be yours. For anyone, at anytime, is
*free* to learn more deeply about forgiveness and Love, about patience,
about allowing, about transcending, about growing in the maturity of
embodying Christ. The mind that reaches a certain stage of maturity is
really no longer concerned with projection and attack — in fact, begins
to relish it. For that mind knows that greater power must be coming
through it if it is activating other minds. Do you see? The ego seeks
safety. The Christ Mind serves the Atonement — and has fun doing it.

Now this means that in the stages of Shanti Christo, as we began this
work some nine years ago, going on ten years ago, from the day that I
first came to this, my beloved brother, the goal has always been to
fulfill my agreement with him to bring him fully into God Consciousness,
to journey with him until my obligation as his teacher had ended. Now,
within that, the secondary effect is to create a work that allows a
context in which others *also* can join with me, can enjoin the process of
awakening. That’s what Shanti Christo is, the creation of a context that
can invite the entire humanity, the entire family of humanity, into the
process of dissolving the innermost castle where the ego has built its
fortress. That is what it must serve at all times. This means that the
more powerfully you are doing that, rest assured, it means the more you
will probably find people coming and going, find yourself being
projected on. It’s always been that way in the world, where any Ray of
Light gets too strong and too clear. Do you see?

So in the future, those of you — and there will be more and more playing
with you at deeper and deeper, more mature levels of commitment ...
when you find yourself attacked by others in the world, *remember this
must mean you’re on the right track*! It doesn’t mean you’re going to be
destroyed. No one will destroy this work. It doesn’t mean you’re going
to be hurt. You can’t be hurt. You’re going to succeed. It simply means
that that’s the way it is when Light penetrates darkness. Each mind *must
be given freedom* to protect its castle, to wait for another day, or to
choose to step into deeper maturity, deeper commitment to the great
dissolution and death of egoic control that growth in Christ Mind
requires.

So when people come and go, give it no thought. Merely love and keep
growing yourselves in Christ. The only reason you’ve achieved the level
of miracle-mindedness and success that has been achieved is because you
have matured enough to recognize that this journey must first be *your
own*.

Let each one who comes to join with you remember that the growing
success of Shanti Christo requires *their commitment* to penetrate their
own castles, whether they be your employees, whether they be your Board
of Directors, whether they be your members. Those who say they want to
see the success of this venture *must* be fully committed to the ongoing
process of *birthing Christ in themselves*.

Does that sufficiently answer your question?

*Response*: Yes.

