---
title: "WOH Lesson Eleven - Question One"
contents: "woh"
fb:
  desc: "Way of the Heart: Lesson Eleven - Question One, About our
    responsibility to the poor and oppressed."
  image:
  - "wom/woh-cover-sm.jpg"
---

### Way of the Heart, Lesson Eleven: Question One

I would like to hear Jeshua address the following issue
brought to my attention by one who does not embrace our path or beliefs.
This person quotes, “The message from Jeshua tends to privatize
spirituality and right action. One could easily forget or rationalize
away one’s responsibility to the poor and oppressed.”

---

### Answer

Indeed, beloved friend, it is with great joy that we come forth
in this hour to address this specific question. For indeed, it is a
question that has been brought forth by many, many minds in many epochs.
For, you see, there is a tendency for the human mind to separate
spirituality into two camps.

There have always been those that sought to *separate* themselves from
culture, from community, from daily life, and to run off to their caves
and their monasteries, in order to seek a purely interior relationship
with God. Now, there’s nothing wrong with creating a purely interior
relationship with God, since that is the Truth of your fundamental
Reality.

However, when the mind holds the perception that it must separate itself
from what it perceives the world to be in order to discover God, that
mind is already beginning its search on a faulty premise. For this means
that one is still a victim of the world, and that the world holds a
power to separate you from awareness of Love’s presence.

Now, in the other camp, there are those who would wish to believe that
genuine spirituality means constantly being engaged in finding someone
to help or to fix. But this, itself, is also but an expression of egoic
consciousness.

> If only I can do for others, then I will validate my worthiness — not
> just to myself, not just to God, but my neighbors will see all the grand
> works that I do. So let me, indeed, rush about to feed the hungry and
> clothe the naked and house the cold. And, of course, whenever I gather
> with my friends at a cocktail party, I’ll let them know what I’ve been
> doing all week.

Each approach is founded in egoism. Now, in the latter camp, there are
those who would seek to render service to others and perceive
spirituality to require *sacrifice* of time, of energy, of money — it
doesn’t matter as long as the idea of *sacrifice* is, shall we say,
fulfilled. I want to share with you that none of these approaches is
genuinely what could be called *spirituality*.

Anyone — *anyone* — who has ever come into contact with what I teach, not just
through this, my beloved brother, but through any of the other numbers of
channels or friends through whom I am communicating with your world ... if
anyone would but read *A Course in Miracles* ... if anyone would but read the
sentences printed in red in their Holy Bibles (some of those are actually
genuinely what I taught), would be hard-pressed to overlook the most
fundamental of teachings that I’ve offered.

First, the greatest of gifts, the highest form of service that you can
give to anyone is to *assume responsibility* for your underlying sense of
separation from God and to *rectify* that mistaken perception. That is
where spirituality *must* start. For, until that is accomplished, all of
your doing in the world will be *clouded* with *egoism*. Those who strive
for peace would do well to first become established in true peace within
themselves.

Those that seek to serve the hungry would do well to nourish
themselves until they are filled, not with that which satisfies the
body, but with that which satisfies the soul. For only when the soul is
brought back into perfect alignment with its established unity with God
can the Wisdom of God inform that soul, that person, in which actions
truly serve the highest good. Without it, one will merely use ideas
learned from the world and will try to be the *maker* and the *doer* of its
service.

This is based on the assumption that one knows what their brother and
sister needs. Therefore, if you see one who is hungry and sitting on the
side of the street, saying,

> Here, give me a few shekels of coins so that I can go and eat,

...if you perceived spirituality as being a *duty* to the oppressed, the
poor, and the hungry, you would immediately look about to see what you
can do for that person, based on their request. And, more importantly,
based on what *you perceive* is amiss.

But how do you know that there is something amiss because a soul has
chosen to create a situation in which they have no job, no home and no
friends? Remember always that each mind literally creates its lived
experience in this domain. There is no such thing as victimization. And
oppression does not come from without. Oppression is a perception
created within that mind. Anyone who looks upon the history of humanity
can recognize many instances in so-called oppressive situations where
individuals have simply chosen not to be oppressed, and have moved with
freedom and with dignity, even into what appears to be death.

Therefore, beloved friend, understand this well: Relationship is the
means to your salvation. But the fundamental relationship that must be
rectified, must be nourished, must be healed, must be cultivated, is
your *direct* and *immediate union* with, and *communication* with, your
Creator. When this is established, the soul rests in perfect peace. It
has far transcended the impulse to be the doer and the maker. It looks
out upon a world completely forgiven; in your language, “let off the
hook.”

One does not look out and see a world that must be saved. One no longer
looks out and sees a world in travail. One merely becomes the servant of
the extension of Love and makes no pretense that it knows beforehand
what that should look like. But in every moment and with every breath,
that mind merely asks within,

> Father, what would you have me do this day? How might I be of service as
> your plan for the Atonement is achieved in human consciousness?

One learns to listen to that Inner Voice that might very well say,

> I want you to establish hospices in every city in the world. Begin now.

That same Voice might say to you,

> Go and sit by the park this day and forget the world. Breathe deeply of
> the Angel of Air. Let the Angels of Sound of the Running Waters fill
> your soul and heal your bodies. Nourish yourself today. Go watch a
> movie, play with your friends, read a good book, have a cup of tea.

Those that believe spirituality rests on how much service is given to
the oppressed might never hear the Voice that says,

> Include yourself in the circle of your Love.

Therefore enlightenment, awakening, requires that all vestiges of the
world mind are cast aside and one rests in that Perfect Truth which can
*in*form perfect action, *right action*, through you. Again, the fulcrum
of what I am sharing rests on this: Without the interiorization, the
process of cultivating the healing of your misperception that you’ve
ever been separate from God, without cultivating deep Self-love — not
love of ego, but love of Self — without that, the deep silence required
wherein one hears the Voice of the Comforter is never achieved. And only
that voice, the right-mindedness within you, can perfectly *in*form your
actions in the world.

Therefore, he who follows me, indeed, journeys to the desert for forty
days and forty nights, and leaves his friends and disciples and
businesses and associates to go off and be alone for prayer, for
cultivating daily the process of seeking first the Kingdom ... that
all things, including how you can be of service, might be added unto
you. Think not for yourself, but love the Self enough to surrender the
world into God’s hands. And see it not as a place that needs you to fix
it. For, of yourself, you can do nothing. "I am the vine and you are the
branches." Remember always that, without the Christ Mind dwelling within
you, that of yourself, you can do nothing. And your service, though
laudable in the eyes of the world, means nothing.

