---
title: "Way of Knowing - Lesson Two"
toc:
- Question One
- Question Two
---

Now, we begin.

And indeed, once again, greetings unto you, beloved and holy friends. As
always, it is with great joy that we come forth to abide with you in
this hour and in this manner. For the forms of communication are
virtually unlimited. Communication requires only the willingness of any
two minds to *join in communion*. Communion requires the willingness to
rescind one’s investment in being right. Rescinding one’s investment in
being right requires recognition that either mind does not know what a
single thing *is* or is *for*.

For in that journey, which began in *The Way of the Heart*, and continued
with *The Way of Transformation*, and begins to culminate in *The Way of
Knowing*, surely, you have heard me say to you, countless times and in
countless ways, to awaken in remembrance absolutely requires that you
choose to want - above all things - to *think with the Mind of God*. And
to think with the Mind of God requires that you be *taught anew*. To be
taught implies a willingness to learn. And a *willingness to learn*
implies that one is willing to create a *space of emptiness within* that
can be filled with a new substance, a new elixir, a new alchemical
substance, if you will.

Therefore, that pathway that brings the soul into perfect remembrance
requires the cultivation of the __Keys to the Kingdom: Desire, Intention,
Allowance, Surrender__. The most essential of those Keys, again, is
*Allowance*. For there is no one listening to these words who has not
already cultivated at least a sufficient Desire. It may not be one
hundred percent perfected, but the Desire has been there. For no one
would come into my presence, no one would come into communication with
that group of beings - masters, teachers, friends ... By the way, we
choose as a group to be known as simply “The Lineage,” for which I
remain the primary spokesman through this, my beloved brother, but there
are many forms of our communication with mankind ... No one would come
into this presence who has not *already desired* healing, awakening, and
remembrance.

*Intention* is the only place that you can begin to correctly use the *will*
that was originally your Creator’s Gift to you. For the correct use of
will, or clear Intention, is to bring forth the good, the holy, and the
beautiful. And any mind that reflects upon its experience and has come
to see that, often, fear has been in the driver’s seat more than Love,
will rightfully use Intention to ask for help in gaining correction of
the mind, that itself, that mind, that soul, might again come into
alignment with the Will of God.

Coming into alignment with the Will of God is not an act of
subservience, although it feels as such to the insane ego. But to the
pure of heart, to the meek who shall inherit the Earth, to those who
recognize their insanity and want a transformation to perfect sanity,
aligning with the Will of God through clear Intention is to seek for
that which is one’s greatest good. It is not a loss at all. It is
*perfect remembrance*. Coming into that alignment, then, is like one who
gives up one of your golden coins to receive ten million golden coins.
It is as though one would give up a rag doll in order to step into a
true love relationship of flesh and bone and emotion and passion. It is
as one who would give up the hope or wish for a drink of water and go to
the faucet, if you will, and fill the cup with living fluids.

Understand, then, that Intention, when it is focused wholly on *wanting
only God*, can never take anything from you that you truly want. And it
will come to replace for you that which you’ve always wanted, have known
in the ancient past, and are calling back to you now.

Desire, Intention, Allowance ... *Allowance*. Oh, indeed, beloved
friends, and there are many of you that have come to taste the Truth of
what I am to say. Allowance is the greatest of Keys to the Kingdom. For
Allowance requires a rescinding - slowly, patiently at times, painfully
at times - a rescinding of every perception you have ever held of
everyone and everything. It is the descent into complete recognition of
your ignorance, a complete recognition of your joy-filled dependence on
the corrective power of the Holy Spirit.

Allowance is the greatest of Keys to the Kingdom. This requires
cultivation *in time*. And when there has been the Desire for healing and
awakening, rest assured, that already your Father, through the Holy
Spirit, is working to reshape every moment of your experience - *every
single moment* - so that the correct teachers, the correct lessons, the
correct books, [laughs] even the correct weather, can come to force you
to look at your edges of *unhappiness*, your edges of *judgment*, your edges
of *insecurity*, your edges of *fear-based definitions* of what Love is,
what it should look like, and what its effects should be. In other
words, the entire world that you have made in error *must* be brought to
the surface of the mind for correction.

Allowance is sweet above the taste of honey. For Allowance is that realm
in which miracles can finally begin to occur. And what is a miracle? It
is not really a change at all. It is merely the recognition of what has
always been - that there is a Love, a Power, that would live through
you, that would guide you in all things; that you need not be the
captain of the ship, you need only be willing to take the cruise.

These three Keys, which are *active* in a sense, that is, they are
experienced in time, they bring up questionings, they require some
resolve and commitment and faith, culminate in *Surrender*. But this
culmination is not something that you do for yourself. Rather, when the
seed has been well planted, when the ground has been tilled and
cultivated, when the wise farmer has made sure that the weather
conditions, the watering conditions, and everything, are just right so
that the seed can be well nurtured, Surrender is much like the petals
which emerge *in their own time*. Here the farmer can do nothing but wait
for Grace to descend.

He may not see that the petals are emerging as the result of *all* things
that have gone forth before: in the selection of the seeds, in the
waiting for the perfect time to plant, in each day’s cultivation and
weeding of the garden. *Choosing* to enter times of prayer, in other
words. *Choosing* to see where fear has made a home in the mind and
surrendering it to the Holy Spirit. *Cultivating* turning over each
decision, day by day, moment by moment. He may not see the causal
connection. He will only see and witness the emerging of the petals.
That emerging has been called, in some cultures, “extraordinary” gifts,
such as clairvoyance, clairaudience, the ability to leave the body, the
experience of communicating with discarnate beings, such as myself, the
ability to see and read the soul of another.

But more important than all of these is *Peace*. Peace is the culmination
of the spiritual journey. It becomes the *field* in which one has entered
the Kingdom and now journeys within it in perfect freedom - a freedom
that cannot be understood by the minds of mankind that still live in
fear, doubt, separation, and even the most subtle traces of egoism.
*Peace is the goal.* But Peace is not a passivity. It is really the *seat
of creative power*. For you were created to create the *good*, the *holy*,
and the *beautiful*.

For a while, you learn to create something else. And yet, that creation
has occurred nowhere, save within the mind. It is merely a chimera or an
illusion. But as you cultivated the power to create illusion, so, too,
does the journey to God require purification - that process whereby you
surrender your will, the egoic mind, over to correction by the Holy
Spirit.

This journey will take you into what this, my beloved brother, calls
“the essence of what you do not know you do not know.” That is what
makes it *unconscious*. For you have used the power of the mind to push
down out of yourself your fears, where they actually gain power but you
do not need to confront them directly. Denial or suppression, as they
speak of it in your psychological language, is the very root of the
creation of the ego. And that which has been hidden *must be made known*.
And in its being made known, *purification* can occur.

Rest assured, then, as I’ve shared with you many times: Give thanks unto
the saviors that are sent unto you. They come in many guises and forms.
Some of you would look upon me as your savior. And in the sense that I
am sent unto you as a teacher, I am. But it is only the *teaching* that
saves you, not me. Your saviors will often, and more often, show up unto
you as those who evoke within you your deepest reactions, your vehement
judgment, your *certainty* that *you* are *right*! When these things occur and
your peace is disturbed, your greatest reactivity has been triggered,
your greatest emotionality is triggered, *there* is the *edge* that calls
for your attention! For remember always, that nothing can come to you
unless you have called it from within yourself in order to grow more
deeply in forgiveness, in wisdom, in Love, and in the Power of Christ.

As purification begins to touch most fundamental or most radical levels,
the *sweetness of Peace* begins to be remembered - faintly at first, and
then more and more, and more and more. One has a realization. Remember
the whole journey is merely one with no distance to it at all to a goal
that’s never changed - it is just a change of mind, a remembrance.
Realization, then, may be the recognition that,

> Oh, I used to think this way, but now I see the emptiness of such silly things.

That quickly [snaps fingers], that fast - it’s over, it’s gone. Where
did the illusion go? It got erased by the cosmic eraser on the end of
the pencil held by the Holy Spirit, because of your *Desire*, your
*Intention*, your *Allowance*, and your *cultivation* of all of those tools
that support you to choose again, to want only Love.

Grace purifies the mind. And Grace is a direct gift of your Father. It
is that energy or Power of Love that descends into a mind and heart that
prepares a place for it. You could say that your greatest preparation is
to admit that you do not know what anything is for. That if you’re
feeling emotions, if you’re feeling like you want to run, if you feel
like you want to avoid taking responsibility for something that’s been
dropped in your lap, rest assured, *right there is your edge*. There is
the place you need to *turn back* and *embrace*.

And in the end, once the journey has begun, the end *is* perfectly
certain. Peace is the perfect goal. But there are few, still, who truly
understand what Peace is. It is not the *avoidance* of pain. It is not the
*avoidance* of responsibility. It is the *doorway* to the *greatest* of
responsibilities in which the mind, the heart, the soul, and even the
body, while it lasts, has been so purified of dissonance, it has become
so aligned with the Will of God, that it looks upon all things with the
Compassion of Christ. Such a one walks this world of yours *unknown* by
those around him or her. That one serves only the Voice of the Holy
Spirit. It is not the least bit concerned with others’ reactivity. For
the only goal of the Awakened Christ - and Peace and Christ
Consciousness are one and the same - is to be an agent through which the
Power of Grace works to transform illusion. That Mind serves the
Atonement. That Mind may not be understood by others, but how can the
*insane* understand the *sane*?

Indeed, beloved friends, Surrender is like the petals of the flower.
They emerge in their own time. And one cannot necessarily see the causal
connection of all that has gone before with the sweet nectar of perfect
remembrance: the flowering of the soul that is no longer fearful and
abides in the world awake, in peace, open - that through which the flow
of Grace descends to touch the world. Surrender flowers from the only
three things you can do: Desire, Intend, Allow. *Allow purification to
occur.* Be willing to visit every dark corner of the mind. For, in Truth,
it is not necessary to seek for Love, for Love already embraces you. But
it *is* necessary to *seek for what is false*:

> Where am I fooling myself?
>
> Where am I committed to my image in the world?
>
> Where am I committed to thinking for myself because underneath I don’t
> truly trust that God loves me?
>
> Where am I lying to myself or to others?
>
> Where am I in denial?
>
> Where do I need to understand what projection is?
>
> Where do I need to understand more deeply how the viciousness of the ego
> works within my own mind?
>
> Where am I pointing a finger outside of myself?
>
> Where am I denying my fear?
>
> Where am I demanding that the world show up as I would have it, instead
> of surrendering to the structuring of the world in the Hands of the Holy
> Spirit that serves entirely my healing, my growth, my maturing into true
> responsibility?

Indeed, beloved friends, in *The Way of Knowing* it is absolutely required
that you pause often and look around you and say:

> I abide in the perfection of a loving universe. Nothing can occur by
> accident. And where I am in this moment must be the perfect place for me
> to be. How can I find the doorway to stillness within, now?
>
> Where within me can I rest, in peace, and ask the Holy Spirit’s
> guidance?
>
> Where, in this moment, am I clinging to another or to a thing?
>
> Where am I looking upon another person or another thing in this
> universe, claiming it is my possession?

For what you do not give to be shared that you say you have loved, rest
assured, beloved friend, in that moment, you are in the *viciousness of
specialness*. The egoic mind believes that if it shares what it has, it
loses. Therefore, in your world, when you perceive that someone or
something has brought you a great source of comfort and love, and even
security, to see that being shared elsewhere activates the fear of loss
within the ego. Much like many of you might remember when you were
teenagers, and you began “going” with a certain boy or certain girl in
the seventh grade, and then two weeks later, they decided to “go” with
someone else. Oh, how crushing it was, for the source of your love has
been stripped from you! Never will you enjoy the smell of a flower
again. Never will food taste good. There could surely be no one else in
this universe that could provide you this great source of love and
attention! Such is the immaturity of the child. Such the immaturity of
many “children” who live in fifty-year-old bodies!

For, beloved friends, there is *no one* and *no created thing* - and the
body-mind is just a created thing - that can be your *source* for Love.
Relationship was never meant to be a device for finding sources for
Love. Relationships were designed to be *holy*. And in holy relationship,
two have come together - not to *get*, but to *create* out of loving
devotion to the Grace that has awakened and purified their mind and
hearts to the realization that only Love is Real, that there is no such
thing as loss, and only Love is worthy to be celebrated. In Perfect
Love, there is no possessiveness. In Perfect Love, there is perfect
allowing. In Perfect Love - guess what? There isn’t even you! There is
only *God* loving *through you*!

Therefore, indeed, beloved friends, look around your very home. Is there
an object that you could not see yourself giving up? If you truly want
to hasten your awakening, go and give it away. For in the end, all that
you *believe* you possess must be given away. And what you believe you
possess is the *right to possessiveness*, the right to *be right*. When all
things created as a substitute for the Reality of God have been
rescinded or surrendered, then indeed, the flower has emerged and the
sweet fragrance blesses everyone.

The Awakened Mind, then, the Mind that rests in Perfect Knowledge, looks
upon all things that It has previously loved and sees that their *form* is
not what is essential. It is the *essence* or the *content* that they
express that matters. A beautiful painting, in and of itself, means
nothing. Hit it with a hammer, light a match to it, throw dirt and mud
on it, it’s not the same. It is not the structure that matters. It is
that in a timeless moment, you looked upon it, entered into
relationship, and experienced the *essence of beauty* flowing through it.
That essence or content is timeless. That essence or content is all
around you! It sustains you! It breathes you! It is the Heart of your
heart, the Soul of your soul, and the Mind of your mind!

Whenever you see any object, whether it be a body, a person, a mind, a
thing, a flower, a pencil - it doesn’t matter - when you feel what you
call “being Love” evoked within you, it is because in that moment you’ve
slipped between the cracks of the world, of the egoic mind, and you are
experiencing the essential content of Reality: Love. You are
experiencing *your own living true Reality*, for only Love is Real. When
you come to see that that *Love* can be experienced at *any* moment, in *any*
situation, with *anyone*, with *any* flower ...

> Well, I like roses but I don’t like plummeria.

What nonsense! *Love* is what you should love! *Love* is what you should
assume responsibility for detecting as it flows through each living
thing. And a rock, in this sense, is a living thing. If it exists,
within it is the good, the holy, and the beautiful. For only that which
contains these things, which is the presence of God, can ever take form
in the first place. *Nothing can be without the essence of what you are
seeking!*

When you understand that it is the *content* that matters and not the
*form*, suffering begins to finally be alleviated. You can begin to
embrace the comings and goings of this transitory realm of the dream, as
a dream. People enter your life and you embrace them and see the good,
the holy, and the beautiful. They flow through their ever-changing
changes, and then they die.

Now death can occur not just at the death of the body. Death occurs at
any moment in relationship when another changes their mind. They may
decide to leave you. They may decide to awaken, which means that the
being that you were relating to is dead. A death has occurred, whether
they leave you physically or not. That’s really rather irrelevant. But
when you come to attune yourself to the essential thread of Love that
flows through all things, you are abiding in a deeper sense of Knowing.
And whether an object, person, place, or thing enters your life and
stays, or whether it flows through in a moment, or whether it flows
through over the course of a lifetime, begins to be less and less
relevant to you - less and less do you grasp at it.

Indeed, the Mind that is truly Awakened and rests in the eternality of
Love that is all things, can lay the head of a loved one down, watch
them take their last breath, feel a little wave of emotion pass through
&ndash; all that is, is the disengagement of the auric fields at a physical
level, that’s all it is. So you let the little shudder of tears come
through, you smile and go:

> Oh, how sweet it was. How sweet it is, for Love is eternal. And wherever two
> minds have joined in Love, separation is absolutely impossible! So what’s the
> big deal?

And you allow something your world calls “death” to occur. And yet,
*death is unreal* to the Mind that rests in the Perfect Peace of Knowing.

<!-- Track t8 -->

Beloved friends, you who have journeyed with me for longer than you
would care to remember, it is always a journey of remembering and
forgetting. That’s what makes it your journey. You get a little glimpse
or a taste of God, you tell the world that’s what you want, but then,
right away, you decide to forget it again so that you can experience the
sweetness of *seeking*. You’ve become addicted to being a seeker. And to
seek, you must first cleverly *push away* what is always yours anyway, in
order to embark on yet another journey of seeking.

*Finding* - which is the same as resting in Knowledge, the same as Christ
Consciousness, the same as Perfect Peace - *finding* requires giving up
the game of seeking. Such a one cannot be known by the minds of the
world. Such a one walks the world but inwardly is empty. Such a one is
merely a conduit through which there are no longer any obstructions to
the offering of God’s Grace.

Indeed, beloved friends, you have journeyed with me for so long. Many of
you have journeyed with me for so long that you’ve taught yourself the
only way to be in relationship with me is to be *dependent* upon me. You
have journeyed with me so long that you can’t imagine, or won’t let
yourself imagine, being my equal. You won’t let yourself imagine *letting
go* of me. And yet, I say unto you, stepping into the fullness of Love
requires *letting go of everything* you have possessed, even if that
possession is me. For Love requires, finally, that you step through the
door into the Kingdom and declare:

> I am That One sent of the Father, created before all things. I am only
> Love. I am not my mind. I am not my body. I am not my personality. I’m
> not my history. I do not belong to the world. I am that vibration, that
> note of Love. I am the Christ, and as such do I abide. I love equally. I
> love without reservation. I love without possessiveness. I love only to
> extend the presence of God, that another might touch that place within
> themselves and be set free.

*Love cannot possess.* Wherever there is a trace of conditionality, rest
assured, the viciousness of fear is in the ascendancy. Therefore, if you
cannot surrender your pet, if you cannot surrender the object that sits
upon your counter in your kitchen, if you cannot surrender a beloved
into death, if you cannot surrender a beloved who changes their mind and
decides to move to Antarctica, with celebration - rest assured, there is
yet a place within you that requires correction. Correction requires
willingness, *Intention*. And Intention requires your *Desire* that you
dissolve even more deeply into the Love which *is* God.

Listen *very* carefully. Indeed, listen *very, very carefully* ...

If you would know the Love of God, *you must BE that Love*. You can’t know
*about* it. You must literally *be* the presence of that Love. Only then do
you know God.

This, then, is the essence of *The Way of Knowing: knowing by BEING that
which you would have knowledge of - direct* experience, *direct*
apprehension, by choosing to *be only that*. This is why Knowledge is a
mystical experience. This is why True Knowing has an *immediacy*. It is
not mediated through a theology, a religion, a philosophy, or any words.
Words are just symbols of symbols. They are symbols of ideas, and ideas
are a step still away from reality. One who knows Love knows it because
every cell of their being is the *presence* of Love. *The Way of Knowing*
culminates with your perfect resolve to *BE* the presence of the Love that
God Is.

<!-- Track t9 -->

Now, if you would truly know Love, look upon the things that you fear.
Discover them. Dig them up and out of yourself. Rest assured, any time
you must look at another and analyze them, there is something you fear.
Anything that pushes your buttons is a *sign* that something is still
requiring your Love.

*The Way of Knowing*, beloved friends, can culminate *only* in the
transformation of your mind to such a level of completion that you sit
in your rocking chair and say:

> There is only God. There has never been a separate me. There never could have
> been. There is only this moment in which Love can dance, can be celebrated,
> and can be extended. Father, what can we create this day that offers to the
> world the Grace of the good, the holy, and the beautiful?

I once described the highest state of consciousness, highest state of
purification, as one in which the Son has awakened, and looks around him
and sees to infinity. He sees not where He begins and the Father ends.
For such is Their union, such Their marriage, such Their dance - the
Unformed and the Formed, the Source and the Created, the Creator and the
Creating - such this alchemical marriage that one cannot look and see
where the soul ends and the Creator begins. And yet, the Awakened Mind
knows that It is still the Created and It surrenders in perfect joy each
moment,

> Father, what would you have me do? What is Your Will for me?

Not in subservience, but because sanity has returned. It recognizes that
It has never been the tiny gnat, whining and complaining and trying to
make Life work the way it thinks it ought to work. It surrenders each
moment. It dissolves in each moment. It abides in each moment. It knows
that only the Love of God is Real,

> Father, what would you have me do?

And It opens Itself and It receives the pebbles being dropped into Its
pond, now not by Its own hand, but by the Hand of Grace, the perfect
Hand of Mystery that I have called *Abba* - that Love, that creative
Source, that Power, that Joy, that *sublime, sweet, sweet Mystery* that is
constantly creating, for Love must extend Itself!

No longer is there concern or worry over the body. No longer is there
concern or worry over the state of the world. No longer is there concern
or worry over *anything*. There is only the eternal dance of Creation. The
Awakened Mind *knows that It is a participant in Perfect Mystery*, and
there are no longer any blocks or fears, whatsoever. And wherever you
find yourself, if you’re asked to be crucified, dead, and buried so you
shock the world into realizing that there’s something else besides
“surviving,” you do it! If it comes and it is given unto you to write
books, you write them. So what? You’re not attached. The flow of
creativity is moving through you. If you’re asked to take a simple
picture that I placed in the mind of a certain artist and distribute it
to fifteen million people, you simply do it, because you’re no longer
attached to your ego. If I ask you - if Love asks you through me or
through another - to move to the far ends of the Earth to build a hut
and to chant, you go and do it. What’s the problem? There isn’t any!

You are free as the wind. And only those born of the Spirit *know* the
Spirit. The Spirit comes and goes where It does. You don’t know where It
came from. You don’t know where It’s going. You totally confuse the
minds of mankind. *You are free!* For you listen to no other voice but the
*Voice for Love*! What would you hold onto in a world of illusion?

<!-- Track t10 -->

Learn to discover the *content* that pervades all form, and you will taste
the perfect freedom, the alleviation of pain that comes with attachment
to the form - even your own. Even your very thoughts that yesterday you
thought were true - today you’ve been taken even more deeply into Love,
and what is in the past is allowed to pass away:

> Yesterday I thought I knew God. Ha! Today I know God even more deeply
> because I’ve rescinded my need to be right about what I once thought I
> knew to be true. Father, give me even more of You! Father, give me even
> more of You! I want more! I desire more! You are infinite! You are my
> Beloved! I want only to die in You - ever more, ever deeper! Give me
> more of You - to taste You, to devour You, to die in You! More and more!

And “more and more” becomes an eternal journey without end to a goal
that has never changed - a journey with no distance, only the sublime
experience of tasting God and then surrendering that taste in order to
taste even more. Love comes to supplant fear. And learning to jump in
order to receive the parachute becomes a delightful game to play.

When I decided to allow the crucifixion, I jumped.

> Can I find my Father even more deeply here?

For me, it was the culmination of a life in which I developed trust that
my Father would always catch me. That journey, by the way, has never
ended. And those of you that would come to where I am, rest assured, you
best not waste a single moment. For I am continually dying more and more
into God.

Therefore, indeed, beloved friends, we will end this short hour with
this suggestion:

> Where is fear still abiding in my mind? Is there anything that I still
> fear? Is it the death of a husband or a wife? Is it the growing up of a
> child? Is it the loss of a job? Is it being without shelter?

Where is the edge of your fear?

> Can I imagine abiding without a man in my life? Can I abide without a
> woman in my life?

Hmm? This is nothing more than unhealed, what you call, mother and
father issues. It is an *authority* problem.

The Awakened abide only with God. They cannot any longer comprehend
possessing or being possessed. They allow all things, trust all things.
They love without reservation the one who stands before them as the
embodiment of their very Beloved - *the content or essence which is the
presence of God*. For when you look upon your brother or sister and see
only Christ, you have seen with the Eyes of Christ. And Christ simply
loves.

Therefore, indeed, beloved friends, be at peace.

Amen.

---

## Question One

[*Question One*](/wom/questions/k02q1/): Jeshua, could you help us
define *Knowledge* or *Knowing*?
{: .omit}

---

## Question Two

[*Question Two*](/wom/questions/k02q2/): Over the years we have seen
many people who appear to get right to the crux of their blocks, and
then they stop. After, they will pull away. And sometimes there can be
projection, the forming of “glee clubs,” and even outright attack. Could
you speak to what’s occurring there, as well as the best way to deal
with it?
{: .omit}

