---
title: "Way of Knowing - Lesson Three"
toc:
- Question One
- Question Two
---

Now, we begin.

And indeed, again, greetings unto you, beloved and holy friends. We come
forth to abide with you — we come forth to abide with you through this,
our beloved brother — in order to enjoin you, yet again, in this year of
*The Way of Knowing*.

Remember always that Knowledge is perfectly certain. Knowledge is that
which is unchanging, unchangeable, and unchanged forever. Knowledge is
Reality, and Reality *is* Love. Knowledge is the essence of your being —
Knowledge, the essence of your soul.

If anyone says unto you,

> I do not know,

they are a liar and a hypocrite, though I would not suggest that you use
those terms in your communication with them. But rather, whether in your
own life or in relationship with a friend, wherever *doubt* seems to arise
in the mind, remember only this: this mind is not currently choosing
Reality. It must, therefore, be choosing something else. And the
something else can only be that experience, that world, of the ego. For
we use the term “ego” to differentiate that state of awareness that is
characterized by *confusion* wearing the *mask of certainty*. When anyone
says unto you,

> I don’t know,

whenever the thought arises in your own mind,

> I don’t know,

rest assured, that in that moment, that mind — your mind — is choosing
to be *other* than what it is.

And what is it, then, that you know?

> I and my Father are One. I am intimately connected with that very Source from
> which has sprung forth all things.

Because this is the Truth, because it is the Truth of your being, this
means that for any situation that requires a decision, you have within
yourself access to Perfect Knowledge. And Perfect Knowledge seeks to
extend Itself. And extension requires the realm of manifestation, the
realm of form, the realm of individuation. Therefore, *you* — as a body
and as a mind, abiding in space and time on a tiny planet — *you are*
Reality’s decision to manifest Itself in form, for no other reason than
to extend Its own nature. The happiness of the soul depends on its
decision to extend only that which *is* Loving.

Because *you* are the manifestation of Reality Itself, of Knowledge
Itself, of Love Itself, it must mean that in any given moment, there is
within you a part of the mind that yet remains free from the ego’s
authority — that part in which there already abides *perfect peace*; that
part of the mind in which there already abides *perfect certainty*; that
part of the mind in which there already abides *the willingness to extend
Love without attachment*. There is already within you that part of the
mind that can deliver up to you the answer for each decision, the answer
that helps to *extend Love*, first into your own beingness, and then
through it. For you can only *give* what you first *receive*. And in your
giving, your receiving is completed.

<!-- Track t2 -->

Therefore, indeed, beloved friends, if you would look to see what the
purpose of your life is, it is quite simple. Being only Love, you can
have no other purpose than to extend the treasure of your very Self.
Christ is God’s only creation. Christ is that medium, if you will,
through which the unfathomable, mysterious, beyond-comprehension Source
that I have called *Abba* (and goes by many names), extends Itself into
the creation of temporary forms to reflect, throughout the Universe,
that which the Universe Itself is made of — where it comes from, what it
is enveloped within, and that to which it eternally returns.

Because *you*, like a wave unto the ocean, have been birthed from that
Reality, emerging from that Reality, you are one with it. Therefore, you
*are* Christ Eternal. That is unchanging and unchangeable forever. Within
you, then, even in this very moment, there abides a part of the mind
that already knows the Truth that sets all things free. That part of the
mind can be accessed at *any* time by *any* one under *any* condition. It does
not require years of cultivation, although in the field of time it can
appear that you’re getting better and better at it, simply because
you’re *enjoying* it more and more and giving value to the fear-based
egoic ways of arriving at decisions less and less.

That part of the mind is like an empty and open channel. Nothing can
obscure its purity — *nothing*. Nothing you have ever done, nothing you
have ever thought, nothing you’ve ever miscreated obscures the perfect
silence, the utter purity, of your connection with the Source of your
being. For Love is always connected to Itself.

What does this mean, then? First, anyone who truly enjoins *The Way of
Knowing* must make a decision to accept the Atonement for themselves:

> I am One with my Creator — now. I choose to fulfill my purpose by
> extending only the reflection of my Self, and I am but Love.

Secondly, anyone who would enjoin *The Way of Knowing* must also look and
embrace the very fact that their attention is involved in the world of
space and time, the world of the body itself. But in *The Way of Knowing*,
the world of space and time is *seen* differently. Rather than as
something that exists *external* to the mind itself — something which has
a power over the mind itself, something that is therefore to be feared,
something that one must be conformed to — the things of space and time
are seen and embraced as that which is given of the Creator to the Son,
to the Daughter, in order to be utilized as devices for assisting Christ
to extend Love . . . whether it be a pencil or a computer or a trip to
your grocery store or a party in which you invite your friends to come
and play. All things finally come to be seen as having only one purpose:
*the extension of Love*.

Imagine a business person sitting down to negotiate the closing of a
deal, who goes to that part of the mind that is sane and says,

> What price should I place upon this land that I am about to sell to this other corporation?

And while his accountants and realtors have been telling him that the
property is worth one million dollars, he goes within. And the answer
comes,

> Ask only $250,000 and ask that another $300,000 be donated to
> such-and-such a charity.

In *your* world, which is the world of insanity, the business man would
say,

> Oh no, I can’t do that. I cannot listen to that voice.

But in *The Way of Knowing*, in the way of enlightenment, the businessman
smiles and says exactly what was received. When the shock on the other
person’s face settles down, they will be quite happy to know that
they’ve saved a lot of money, for in *their* world, they think that the
only way to have is to possess. But in *The Way of Knowing*, and in the
way of Reality, the only way to *have* is to *give*.

<!-- Track t3 -->

Now, you are like that businessman. You abide in the world in which *the
business of your Reality is to extend only Love*. Be you, therefore, not
afraid of the world. For the world of space and time, when seen through
the eyes of the enlightened soul that accepts its oneness with God, the
world of space and time is perfectly benign and has *no purpose
whatsoever except to serve Christ in the extension of Love*. And this is
why anyone who comes to answer only the Voice for Love miraculously
finds that the Universe comes to support that one in ways that the egoic
mind can never understand. Miracles do occur as Creation flows from a
mind unencumbered with the pressures of trying to make life go the way
it thinks it needs it to go.

And here we begin to touch upon the essence of my teaching,

> I need do nothing.

This is not a passive state, by the way, of just accepting the fact
that:

> I need to do nothing, and I’ll just show up, and follow my impulses and not
> think too deeply or wonder what I’m doing. I really don’t need to do anything,
> since none of it matters.

That’s not it at all. It means *quite* actively to learn and master the
art you do *need* to do nothing; to find that spaciousness within you in
which you are willing to allow that channel within you that is eternally
connected to your Source to be the vehicle through which you receive
your guidance, in the pure recognition that you have no purpose — save
the extension of Love.

It is not your purpose to survive as a body-mind. It is not your purpose
to keep the same house you’ve had for the last twenty years. It is not
your purpose to be in relationship with this person or that person for
the entirety of the life of the body-mind. It is not your purpose to
accomplish great things. It is not your purpose to be wealthy. It is not
your purpose to do anything *except* be that conduit through which Love
extends Itself.

As you come, truly, to allow Love to be your greatest Beloved, as you
set aside all other idols — the need to hold onto the house, the need to
have certain dollars in the bank, the need to have certain people in
your life — as you come to see that all of that is part of the world of
illusion, as you come to love *Love*, you will have come to love *yourself*.
For you *are* Love, and only this. And as you come to love Love as your
Beloved, more and more, you will discover that you are guided on a path
of miracles in which more power, if you will, seems to be getting
extended through you. You’ll begin to witness that the Universe seems to
support you, more and more, in ways that you could have never imagined.

Out of that you might, indeed, see the life of the body-mind changing —
the car you drive, the home you live in, the quality of the beings that
come into your life. And yet, you will be unattached to these things,
for you will not see them as ends in themselves, but merely as the proof
that the great Wisdom of Love that underlies all things is connecting
you to new forms, new contexts, because It knows that now It can flow
*through* you more powerfully, more certainly, more maturely, more wisely.

Therefore, seek not to improve your life by adding even one cubit unto
your stature, but rather, seek to improve your life by *realizing your
nature as Love*. How do you do that? By recognizing that in each moment
you are in the right place at the right time. And *this* is the moment in
which Love can be remembered, can be restored, and can be extended. *This*
is the moment in which you can decide to listen only to the voice within
you that knows how to extend Love.

<!-- Track t4 -->

Beloved friends, in *The Way of Knowing*, the illusion that there is
something to seek vanishes. In *The Way of Knowing*, the mind is liberated
from the misperception that there’s something wrong going on in the
world. The mind is so liberated that it knows as long as it chooses
Love, as long as it follows the mysterious, quiet voice within its own
heart, that the choices it makes, the decisions it embraces, the actions
it takes, the thoughts that it thinks, cannot help but serve in the
further awakening of every one and every thing, so *perfect* is the Love
that embraces the whole of Creation — God!

You have heard me say to you, therefore, many times, that wherever you
know a fearful thought, it can only mean that you are not thinking
“rightly,” that is, you are not thinking with the Mind of God. And God
is but Love. If a million dollars were to come to you one of your days,
as Christ, you would say:

> This must be the perfect experience for me now. How can I extend Love in this moment?

And if, in the next day, your wallet is perfectly empty, the enlightened
Mind of Christ says:

> This must be the perfect event for me to be experiencing now. How can I extend Love in this moment?

The changing can never be the source of peace. The world of form —
whether dollars in a bank, houses, cars, people, friends, lovers, pets,
plants, and all of the rest — the world of form, in itself, can never be
the source of perfect freedom. These things arise and pass away and are
like ephemeral shadows, wisps of foam dancing in an ocean. When the mind
becomes identified with the *form*, that mind *suffers*. When the mind is
liberated from attachment to form, it is free, for it is identified only
with *content*, or simply the Reality of Love.

In any given moment, you have the power within you to experience the
Reality of Love, unobstructed, unmediated — *now* — without need of
magical means, without need for the Universe to arrange itself in any
certain way, whatsoever. In any given condition, you have within
yourself the power to decide to, literally, *feel* and *experience Love*.
Love, then, or the experience of it, is a decision. It is not something
earned, and it is not something created. It is that which is eternally
present *now* as the very identity of your being, the very Life of your
being, the existence of your being.

Once, I said to this, my beloved brother:

> Merely stand, with arms outstretched and palms up. Open the heart
> deeply, and ask whatsoever you will. And it shall be given you. But ask
> as the Awakened Christ, asking from that place that knows only Love is
> Real.

Therefore, take just a moment, *right now*! Stand from wherever you are,
and take your arms outstretched with palms turned Heavenward. Think
about your own heart for just a moment, and simply ask to *feel* and *know*
the Reality of Love’s presence. Breathe it into your heart. Open the
cells of the body. Open the mind and simply *receive* what is available.

Good! And now you can allow yourself to sit down again, if you wish, or
continue to stand. If you think you “didn’t get it,” you’re simply
fooling yourself. It requires only this. And perhaps we should then give
you this as a meditation to do in *The Way of Knowing*. Arise from your
chairs, and at least once a day, stand with your arms outstretched and
the palms up and say simply:

> I open and receive the Reality of Love for my Self — now!

<!-- Track t5 -->

You see, *Self-love* is the pathway to perfect peace. Self-love opens all
the doors. Self-love dissolves every illusion. I’m not speaking of love
for the illusions of the egoic mind with which you have become
identified. I am not saying that you should say:

> I love my self because I now have x amount of dollars in the bank. I
> love my self because I have a wonderful husband or wife. I love my self
> because I have a great dog.

No.

> I love my <span class="tr_normal">Self</span>.

The Self that is beyond time is that Self from which even the body has
emerged.

Whenever you are in doubt, whenever your energy seems to have dropped,
try a dose of *celebrating*. A simple dose of celebrating that you are in
a perfect Universe, you abide as Love, and the very fact that you have a
body that has emerged out of consciousness in order to be used to extend
only Love is pretty miraculous. And you are free to celebrate that
simple, essential Truth in any moment. Then ask:

> Great! Who can I extend Love to now? How can I experience Love now?

It’s all much simpler than you think.

In *The Way of Knowing*, there is Knowing. If that statement seems
puzzling to you, contemplate it as a meditation:

> In ‘*The Way of Knowing*’, there is Knowing.

There is no more powerful state of consciousness to act from than the
state of Knowing. For indeed, beloved friends, if you truly accepted
yourself as Christ, you would know that you cannot fail. And if you
cannot fail, what would you do with your time? If you knew you could not
possibly fail, that the Universe will support you completely at all
times, as you choose only to act, to do, to think in a way that extends
Love, would you be living where you’re currently living? Would you be
doing with your time what you’re currently doing? . . . many of you
because you think you must survive *first*, in order to find a way to
teach only Love.

In *The Way of Knowing*, the Christ Mind recognizes it has no purpose,
whatsoever, except to extend Love. The body-mind need not survive more
than the next moment, if in that next moment you have extended Love and
your guidance is,

> Time to be beamed up.

Those that know that only Love is Real are not concerned with what they
eat and what they drink. For these things come into the body and leave
through the body. They are concerned only with whether or not that which
they consume for the sake of the body was consumed in Love. For *Love* is
what allows the transmutation of anything that comes into the physical
system and allows it to be turned to that which supports the energetic
wholeness of the physical system itself.

It is far greater, by the way, to have what you call a bottle of Scotch
for breakfast in a state of total Christed Love, than it is to have nine
thousand vitamins spread before you with one tiny little fearful
thought. So, that’s just an aside and something for you to think about.

<!-- Track t6 -->

For you see, it is fear that causes you to be unable to digest what you
place in the body — the body of the emotions, or the body of the mind.
It is what causes stress in the subtle system of the body: the emotional
body, the mental body, the causal body — the subtle nonphysical bodies.
What causes the greatest problem is your refusal to *digest* what you’ve
taken in. And just as food is a physical substance taken into the body,
an *experience* of any kind is a “food” that has been called to the soul.
Anything that arises that cannot pass through you, through your
willingness to embrace it with Love, to feel it completely, will cause
“indigestion” of the physical, emotional, mental, and causal beings or
bodies.

Therefore, indeed, beloved friends, learn to digest *all things* in Love.
Learn to digest the traffic jam in Love. Learn to digest the dying of a
pet in Love. Learn to digest an apple in Love. Learn to digest a hurtful
thought in Love. Learn to digest a misperception that there’s something
wrong with the world around you with Love. Transform all things by the
power of your only Reality.

And now, we would shift ever so slightly and ask you to join with us.
For I want to ask of you: What is it that you have refused to digest in
*this one incarnation*? Was it an unfairness bestowed upon you by your
mother or father? Was it the “bad break” at the office in which you got
passed up for a promotion? What is it in your life that remains
undigested?

There! Something has come into the mind. Trust it. Stay with that one
thought, that one picture, that one memory. For it has arisen in the
conscious mind to be healed and transformed *now*. Bring your attention to
it in this very moment. Look upon it, breathe with the body, and say
simply within the mind:

> I choose now to fully digest this by bringing Love to it, by actually
> loving the event just as it was — loving the picture, the memory, the
> thought, just as it is.

If you wish, you can stand with your arms out wide and your palms turned
Heavenward and receive the Love that transmutes all things. *Breathe* that
Love! *Feel* that Love in and through that picture, that memory, that
feeling — whatever it is that’s occurring for you, until it literally
dissolves. And if you don’t feel that happening, even in your body,
there’s a part of you that’s *resisting* letting go of what has been
undigested. And if that is the case, you need to ask yourself:

> Why do I need to uphold my illusory perception about this event? What in me
> is committed to withholding my Love?

If you wish, we would highly suggest that you spend some time each day
asking the same question:

> What is it that I’ve not been willing to digest about this life and
> about this world? Where am I refusing to bring my Love?

Is it to your government? Is it to your Internal Revenue Service? Hmm?
Is it to the mate? Is it to the children? To the pet? To the school
system? What is it that you have refused to bring your Love to?

<!-- Track t7 -->

For you see, the greatest joy in life is to be the Lover of Life. For as
you love, you experience Love. Therefore, do unto others what you would
have done unto yourself. And is that not to be loved? And when you
choose to love in any given moment, you are the one who gets to receive
the benefits of Love first. It is an immediate experience, and it cannot
be taken from you. You are free to “juice yourself” any time you want by
choosing only to Love. In any given condition, you are the presence of
that one to whom all power under Heaven and earth has been given, not
just to extend Love as a duty, for it is not a duty, it is a *pleasure*.
It is the *supreme pleasure* that can be experienced in the depth of any
mind, whether you happen to be in the world of space and time or, like
me, out of it.

You are the one that can experience Love and let your cup overflow. You
are the one who can *enjoy* each and every moment, regardless of the
conditions. For the conditions are only the interpretations of the egoic
mind. All events are neutral. They are there for you to *love*, that you
might *experience Love*! That’s really how simple it is. It has always
been that way, and it will never change. You are the Lover. The world
can be the reflection of your Beloved.

Let each moment, then, find you in the simple, quiet, inner enjoyment
that comes from the decision *to love*. To love the taking out of the
garbage. To love the rain that hits the windows. To love the crying of
the child .To love, to love, to love! Love embraces all things, allows
all things, trusts all things, and therefore transcends all things. And
that is the power that abides within you when you finally choose to be
That One who Knows.

Look well, then, this day and seize this day. Beloved friends, *where* can
you simply change your mind and bring Love to something that you’ve been
withdrawing Love from?

> Well, I’ve got to go to the office.

No, you don’t! You are *choosing* to go to the office. You might as well
*love* it!

Where, O beloved friends, are you being presented with opportunities to
experience Love coursing through every cell of your being this day? What
can prevent you from experiencing Love if it is not but your own
decision? For in *The Way of Knowing*, the liberated Mind of Christ knows,

> There is nothing outside me.

And with that, peace be unto you always, O Holy Child of God.

Amen.

---

## Question One

[*Question One*](/wom/questions/k03q1/): How do I not keep one love for
myself and yet continue loving myself?
{: .omit}

---

## Question Two

[*Question Two*](/wom/questions/k03q2/): Since we do not know what our
brother or sister needs, is it possible that the Holy Spirit would guide
us to say and do things that others would react vehemently to, such as
You did when You yelled and got angry at the moneychangers? Is it true
that we can’t put a lid on how the guidance of the Holy Spirit would
sound or look?
{: .omit}

