---
title: "Way of Knowing - Lesson Six"
toc:
- Question One
- Question Two
---

Now, we begin.

And indeed, once again, greetings unto you, beloved and holy friends. As
always, I come forth to abide with you as *merely* your brother and your
friend. Remember, always, that a brother, or a sister, is not someone
who is above you, but who is your equal. Remember, always, that a friend
is one who has chosen deliberately to see in you the perfection of
Christ, and all greatness that can be birthed through you, until you are
willing to see yourself in such a Light. And then, that friend joins
with you in holy relationship — to create, to play, to extend the Truth
of Reality.

For you were born and created to create and not to *make*. What, then, is
the difference between *making* and *creating*?

Making requires the special efforts of the egoic mind. Making involves
planning what one *wants* based on what one *already knows*, and then
setting about to find the way to bring it into being according to one’s
own ideas. Making always has an element of fear, since the ego itself *is*
the fundamental contraction of fear.

Creating, in the way that I’m using these terms, is quite different.
When I say that you were born to create, you were created to create, I
mean that being made in the Creator’s image your only function is to
serve as a conduit through which the unfathomable mystery and beauty of
Love can be expressed in ways that can be *seen* in this world. An artist
can do that with a brush, a singer with a song, a writer with a word, a
friend with a smile, a gardener with a garden. You are *in* the act of
extending creation whenever you surrender your own ideas of what a thing
is or is for, and choose only to do what you do in order to enjoy the
presence of Love and the offering of that Love to whomever or whatever
will receive it.

Creation, then, is the process in which the creator extends
herself/himself from the world of the formless into the world of form.
When you choose to invite friends to dinner, and have no ulterior agenda
except to be with them and to create a good salad and some soup for them
— just because you love them, because you are in a joyful state of being
— you are extending the Presence and Reality of God. Surely, this is
much different than what your politicians do when they invite friends
for dinner. Therefore, indeed, beloved friends, they are involved in
*making*, while your dinner is the *flow of creation*.

In the flow of creation, the *form*, itself, is always recognized to be
*secondary*; it is a mere instrumentation for the *content*. In *making*, the
*form* becomes *very important*. And why? Because in making, the egoic mind
already believes it knows what things are and what they are for, since
all things are for the ego’s safety and continuance. And therefore, the
form of how things are done becomes *very* important, for form is image
and not content. In creation, the form is as you most desire it to be
because it gives you *joy*, not because you believe it will coerce someone
else into voting for your party.

Imagine, then, if those of your actors and actresses were more
interested in wearing clothing for their great Oscar nominations that
brought them joy, as opposed to seeing how good they could look, what
will be acceptable, what will be breathtaking, what will grab the
attention of others. Rest assured, many of them would show up in their
pajamas. Hmm!

<!-- Track t2 -->

The difference between making and creating is the difference between
illusion and Reality. Reality is the Love which is God. It is the
Creator’s Will to extend Love. You were created out of the Will of the
Creator — and therefore, *your will* to express Love is the *Will of God*;
they are one and the same.

The egoic mind, around the subject of Love since we’re on it, is
interested in *making* love. It has very set ideas of what Love should
*look like*, what *form* it should take, how other beings ought to *respond*,
what actions are okay and what aren’t okay. But in creation, Love merely
extends Itself with *innocence*. When your will is one with your Creator,
you are not in the least bit interested in *making* love. You are only
interested in *celebrating* the Reality that you are already *in* Love, and
you are already as the expression of Love. You are innocent and you are
perfect, just as you are. The form of that expression becomes quite
secondary, since it is merely a temporary instrumentation for the
fulfillment of the heart’s desire to celebrate the Reality of *being in
Love*.

Let me, then, ask you this question: In your own life, do you exert
energy in trying to *make* Love happen, or do you celebrate that you are
already in the *presence* of Love? For in the former, you must coerce
other beings to join your making, and then try to persuade them of how
they ought to be behaving, performing, accepting, receiving — so that
you feel you’ve succeeded in manifesting what you’ve already determined
in the mind. *Making love* requires others. *Creating Love*, that is,
extending Love, requires nothing but your will, your willingness. This
means that you are perfectly free and do not require — do not *need* — the
world to show up in any certain *form* before you decide to be in Love.
And when you are *in* Love, *Love will guide the expression of form*.

That’s truly how simple it is. And you will know right away if a smile
is enough, whether to another human being or to a leaf on a tree. You’ll
know, if you’re with another, exactly how to express it. There won’t be
a question, there won’t be a doubt. There will be no interference of the
egoic mind. There will be no fear. For when the mind is truly in the
Will of God, there is no time. Since there is no time, there is no
reference to the past, and no reference to the future. For these things
abide in the duality of time. They are not part of what alone is
eternal. The past has passed away. The future is, at best, a fantasy in
the mind. The *present* is where God abides.

The Peace of Christ, then, depends on your willingness to abide in the
present for no other reason than to extend creation, to be one who
receives Love, acknowledges the presence of Love, breathes Love, and
then allows It to flow through the body-mind, through the voice, through
the handwritten word, through the wink of an eye — whatever it is — and
then you’re done with it and you’re on to the next moment. The Peace of
Christ comes only to that mind that withdraws valuation from the past
and the future, and surrenders into the present. For only in the present
can Love be *felt, known*, and *extended*. Such a mind is a creator. And
through that mind, the perfection of Love’s extension flows — without
impediment, without obstacle, and without mistake.

The mind, then, that is free, free from the egoic need to make, to
control, to shape, the mind that is free from identification with the
past and anxiety over the future, abides in the perfectly eternal *now* —
for no other reason than to receive the awareness that it abides in
Love’s perfect presence, and then allows that mysterious Reality through
that mind, right where it is, *as* it is. It doesn’t need to make a show.
This isn’t about having a prescribed set of activities to do. You are
merely present in the moment, and *Love lives you*.

Holy relationship, then, is where any two beings choose to come together
and simply each of them, individually, chooses to be *in* the presence of
Love. And then, whatever happens, happens. Perhaps one will sit in a
chair and read a book while another one watches a movie. Perhaps they
will come together and create a beautiful dinner. It really becomes
quite irrelevant, because they will be moved by the mysterious energy of
Love, Itself, which is the Will of God creating experience *through* His
Creations. And when that moment is gone, it’s gone. And the mind of each
of them simply finds itself in a new present moment.

<!-- Track t3 -->

The difference between *making* and *creating* is essential in *The Way of
Knowing*. Therefore, I want to invite you, in this hour’s theme and
message, to begin to look at your own life. Where are you resting in
Knowing and allowing Creation to flow through you in each present
moment, and where does your mind become absorbed in what you think you
must *make* occur? Come to discern the difference between the two, and
notice the quality of feeling that is within you when you are in each of
those states.

If you are diligent, you will come to see that whenever you are in the
mode of *making* love, *making* life conform to what you *think* it ought to
be, you are in suffering. When you are *creating*, you are enjoying the
miracle of Creation, Itself. For you are in a very unique position. You
both are That One through whom Creation flows, and you are also the
witness of, or the observer of, the act of Creation flowing from the
Mind and Heart of that Creative Center I have called *Abba*, Who is but
Love.

Celebrate, then, and embrace the uniqueness of yourself as the Son of
God. You are one who gets to *experience* Love, *create* Love, and also
observe and witness the *flow* of Love. And if you do not understand that
that is *miraculous*, then spend as much time as you need to alone,
without moving a muscle, until you get it. For that is the Truth of your
Reality. It is timeless and eternal, and far transcends the boundaries
of the physical body and the boundaries of your *ideas* about your
physical self — your personality, your personal history, your children,
your mates, your bank accounts. It far transcends everything that is
temporarily arising in the field of form.

As the Holy Son of God, as that created Spirit, birthed to create, your
ability to be aware of the flow of Love is unborn and undying — you will
never lose it. As the Holy Son of God, the power of your ability, the
power of your beingness to allow Love to flow through you is unlimited
forever, and it will never be taken away. As the Holy Son of God, your
capacity to enjoy the very act of being the One through whom Love is
extended is without equal in all of Creation, and it, too, is never
taken from you.

Those three aspects are really one thing. And they are the Truth of who
you are. And any time your mind has fallen under the power of the egoic
mind, which is just to choose wrongly and insanely for a moment, the
Reality of your being never goes away. It’s never changed or altered in
any way. All that has occurred is that you have used time to *lose*
awareness of the Truth. And in the next moment, you are free to choose
again. The Healed Mind is One which accepts Its True Knowingness:

> I and my Father are One. Only Love is real. I cannot possibly be a
> victim of what I see, since what I see is what I choose to see. And if I
> choose to see with the Eyes of Love, all I see is perfect innocence and
> the Will of my Father clearly at work.

The Healed Mind is simply One that rests in that simple Reality. It has
merely trained Itself to always choose for the Voice for Love, that’s
all. It doesn’t matter what arises and passes away. The Healed Mind is
*not* a mind that can *make* whatever It wants to happen, happen. That is
the egoic attempt to become absolutely powerful. The meek of heart — the
pure of heart — are those who realize that *making* is the illusion. *Being*
is the reality.

<!-- Track t4  -->

Making and creating — *doing* frantically or *being* the presence of Love,
out of which creative contexts emerge because it is the Will of the
Creator to extend Himself through a myriad of forms that arise and pass
away. The forms change, but the content or the essence does not. And the
Awakened Mind is awakened to the ever-present flow of content, pervading
all form, at all time. This is why, for the Awakened Mind, loss is not
possible, and death is seen as unreal. For death can pertain only to the
*form*. Forms begin in time and end in time, such as a body; that is a
form you’re very clearly aware of. Ideas have a beginning and an end.
Love is the only thing that knows neither beginning nor end, being the
fundamental energy of God Itself.

The Healed Mind does not plan. What does that mean? It doesn’t mean that
it doesn’t structure a day — that is, make decisions whether its going
to make this phone call now and that one later. But it does not plan
what the day shall be *for*. It merely surrenders into Love and allows
*Love* to *birth* the day. Do you see the difference? The egoic mind arises
in the morning already believing it knows what this one day is for, and
this day can have no purpose but the sustaining of the authority of the
ego and trying again to make the world conform to what the egoic mind
believes must be so. The Awakened Mind knows that this day has no
purpose, save that which the Creator would give to it — through the
Mind, through the Self. And so, It seeks first the Kingdom and then all
things are added unto It. The day flows *out of* Its surrender to Love.

The Healed Mind — the *truly Healed Mind* — is One who is like the wind.
When you look upon the wind, you cannot tell from where it’s coming, and
you don’t know where it’s going. It’s not a logical thing; *you* can’t
control it. You can see its effects. You can try to measure it. You
might even try to predict it. But it will always leave you guessing.

A Healed Mind is not interested in *making*. Its only interest is the
delight and joy of *creating*. It merely shows up where it is asked to be.
It no more laments or complains if it is asked to work twenty-three
hours a day at bringing forth some creation that extends the Presence
and Love of God. It merely does what is asked. The Healed Mind is no
longer attached to the world’s definitions of success or failure. For
those pertain to the realm of *making*. It is no longer attached to what
others *think* of Its creation, for It trusts the Mystery that has birthed
It and that operates through It in each moment.

<!-- Track t5 -->

Indeed, beloved friends, consider well: are you devoted to *making* or
*creating*? By way of a simple exercise, in this very moment, how are you
approaching the listening to this tape? Did you remember to begin it, as
we’ve suggested many times, as one who knows that they are already
Christ and they are merely sitting down to abide with a brother and a
friend who is their equal and sees the Truth of them? To open the heart
and trust that what emerges in the form of your experience, as you
listen to these words, is exactly what is perfect for you in this
moment? Or did you sit down determined to make yourself like Jeshua by
*memorizing the words*, by *getting the concept*?

The relaxed mind absorbs all knowledge. The making mind misses all
knowledge. The relaxed and healed mind is like a sponge that is
constantly learning and being shaped by what it learns. The making mind
has no room in it to receive anything new because it has already decided
what the truth is, what it should look like, and what it should sound
like. It misses the moment in which it can observe, be the conduit for,
and the one who is creating, an experience of Love.

In this moment, then, you are quite free to truly open the heart and
relax the mind and to realize you are present with a brother, and
together you are *in* the Field of Love. And all that arises, arises in
Mystery and returns to its Source. If you can enter into such a Field of
Mind, in this very moment you are free. And you are, indeed, One who
Knows. If you can join with me in such a Mind — in this very moment then
you can prove to yourself how infinitely powerful you are. And what you
can apply to *this* moment can be applied to all moments.

Likewise, if your mind is currently insisting that you cannot be That
One in this moment, you’re doing the very same thing. You’re using the
infinite power of the mind to choose to remain a *maker*, and therefore,
to reside in suffering. Either way, you remain quite right. Either way,
you are expressing your infinite and perfect freedom — to *create* or to
*make*, to be in Love or to be in fear, to abide in peace or to abide in
anxiety.

Now, ask within yourself,

> Would I choose to experience what is unending — myself — as a creator or a maker?

If you choose the path of the creator, then the first thing you need to
do is to remember that creating is not the same as making. Creating
involves seeking first the Kingdom of Heaven. Now what does that mean?
Well, it means that you have to sell all that you own, get a backpack,
buy a ticket to Kathmandu, and spend seventeen years hiking through the
Himalayan Mountains until you find just the right cave, and then another
seventeen years of astute meditation and prayer before you begin to get
your first glimpse of God. That is what seeking the Kingdom involves.
Or, you can simply turn the mind to the Peace of God — right where you
are — and accept it. And in that very moment, you will have gained what
all the yogis in their caves have ever gained, what all of the Buddhas
and Christs have achieved in their austerities. The Kingdom is but a
choice away:

> I choose now for the Perfect Peace of God.

And just like that, you’ve achieved all that needs to be achieved — if
you receive it.

<!-- Track t6 -->

To create means that you are committed to seeking first the Kingdom of
Heaven, then allowing yourself to celebrate that, regardless of what
your physical eyes show you, regardless of how the brain-mind is
interpreting or creating perception of what the physical eyes reveal to
it, regardless of all of that, *you are free*. For whatever is arising is
perfectly harmless. Forms come and go, Love remains. And where else can
you possibly find freedom, except as one who is merely abiding as the
decision for Love?

If you would be a creator, you’ll need to give up *striving*, for striving
is part of the world of making. And you will need to give yourself
permission to cultivate a mastery of *allowing*. Allowing is not a
passivity. Allowing is not sitting on your pillow waiting for the
Universe to manifest good things in your life. Allowing is an act of
turning within, appreciating your Oneness with God, and simply asking,

> Father, what would you like to create in this moment?

And suddenly, a thought comes. And the thought reveals you driving your
car thirty-five miles to see a friend and inviting them to dinner. Well,
then, get on with it! Driving your car for thirty-five miles is an act
that takes energy. It is not a passive act at all. *Allowing* is a very
powerful state of being, for allowing does not resist anything in the
field of action — anything! And if you are asked to create a retreat
center in northern New Mexico, well, you simply get on with it, even
though you have no idea how it’s going to come to pass. You merely make
yourself available and you show up.

On the outside, then, a creator — a true creator — may look very
ordinary. A creator may look to be one who is, shall we say, not getting
the applause of the world. Their picture may not be on the front of what
you call the *People* magazine. Hmm! They may not be the centerfold in the
*Playboy* or *Playgirl*. A creator is one who is delighting in allowing the
flow of Life to find ways to touch hearts and minds with Love. The
creator is not about storing up golden coins for a winter’s day. The
creator is merely about watching, being a conduit for, and being
involved in, the creative extension of Love. That creation might require
the storing up of golden coins, for the creator resists nothing of the
world. Nothing is seen as good or bad, it’s just an instrumentation for
effecting the Will of God. And the Will of God is the extension of Love.
And when you are involved in *that*, your will is one with the Father,
that’s all.

<!-- Track t7 -->

The difference between *making* and *creating* is essential in *The Way of
Knowing*. It would behoove you, then, to spend some time, over the next
month or so, in merely abiding in the innocence of observing your life
and beginning to notice when your energy gets caught up with *making*
instead of *creating*. Where have you, perhaps, given your life over to
making, wishing you could create? Begin to observe the moments in your
day when you can choose to create, and remembering that to choose to
create means:

> I give this moment over for the Will of my Father. I wonder how I could
> simply surrender into being the presence of one who has > accepted the Kingdom
> for him or herself? And then I’ll see where it carries me in the next second.

So that you begin to see that regardless of what is arising in the
conditions around you, or what other minds are doing in this world ...
I’ve said that this world is a big clash of dreams, and the vast
majority of minds are still far more committed to illusion than Reality
... to come to see that the world has no effect on you. There are just
events arising and passing away. And in any context, your mind remains
free to give up making for creating, and then surrendering that moment
to the Will of God.

Accepting the Atonement for yourself is another way of saying accepting
Love’s presence — breathing it in and celebrating it:

> Ah, yes! This is all that’s really real anyway. Ah-h-h. I wonder what
> would want to be created in this moment?

And then observing the delightful expression of that *Will* in that
moment, that’s all. When I said,

> The meek shall inherit the Earth,

it means that eventually there will be established as the pervasive
quality of human consciousness just this state of being. The world will
be populated by creators who arise in the morning going:

> The day really belongs to the Creator. I’m just created to extend the
> Creator’s Will.
> 
> Father, what would be a groovy way to hang out this day?

Some of those minds might hear,

> Oh, just hang out in the forest and listen to the birds.

And so, those beings will give their day to delighting as deeply as
possible in the experience of the singing of the birds. Others will hear
a different message. And they will set about and do whatever they are
asked. Why? Because the mind of the creator is no longer in resistance.
Sanity has been re-established and there’s nothing to fret about.

The mind involved in *making* listens for the impulse of God, and then has
a million reasons why that *cannot be*. And those reasons are *always*
linked to learning that has occurred in the *past* or anxiety about an
imagined *future*. In other words, the mind of a maker is *never present*.
It is caught up in the illusion of duality, not the Reality of Perfect
Oneness.

One who Knows is a creator. And a creator is empty of himself, that is,
empty of the self that was made in error. The Knower of Reality is the
presence of Love, the spaciousness through which the Creator extends Its
Perfect Will. It has no attachments and no illusions. It is not run by
what other people think of It. It is not run by what It has accomplished
in the past, or what It perceives It must have in the future.

The mind of one who Knows and rests in true creativity is merely
present, witnessing the *extraordinary*, mysterious ways of Love. For Love
allows all things, embraces all things, trusts all things, and
therefore, transcends all things. And perfect peace can only exist where
the mind has *transcended* all conflicted states of duality. Transcendence
is not denial. It can come only through embracing, through allowing,
through being present.

Your mind is a mind that *has* been healed. You do not need to heal it.
You only need to accept that healing has been accomplished by the grace
of that Love that birthed you to create. That is what I meant when I
have said a teacher of God need only accept the Atonement for
themselves.

> I am already healed. Time to get on with it.

All forms of healing, then, are merely contexts created by Love through
a mind that has accepted healing — a context created that would give the
mind that perceives itself as unhealed an opportunity to choose
differently.

Therefore, I want to create for you a context in this very moment. A way
of demonstrating to you exactly what I’ve been sharing with you in this
hour. For in this moment, as a brother and friend who loves you, and
loves my Father, I am merely allowing myself to create words recorded on
a tape that helps to create a context that I am literally observing
emerge. I have not planned it. I’m not trying to make anything happen. I
am abiding in Love.

And out of that Love I am now receiving the thought from the Will of my
Father. I am observing it flow through my mind into the field of being
that you would know as this, my beloved brother, being translated
through electrical impulses into that which creates a vibration of vocal
cords, that creates words that are recorded onto a tape, that are then
heard by your ears, that send vibrations to your brain-mind — and giving
you permission to access it with the deeper Self that Knows the Truth.

I am witnessing all these things even as it flows through my mind toward
yours.

I invite you, then now, into the context of healing. Say, then, this
within your holy mind:

> My mind has already been healed by the Grace that birthed me in Its
> image. I need only use the power of that mind to choose the perfect
> Peace of God. I do so now and forevermore. I am one who Knows.
> 
> Father, what would You create in this moment that is an extension of
> Love?

And do nothing but observe what comes into your mind — what feeling
suddenly flows through the body.

<!-- Track t9 -->

There! Short exercise. A context to demonstrate how it all works. No
magic, no pilgrimages, no special pills, no special diet, no special
love affairs — nothing *special* at all. Simply the presence of Mind. And
rest assured, in that moment, if you were truly joining with it, you had
no thought whatsoever that you are a separate ego who does not know God.
You were that Mind enjoined in the creative process itself. You were in
your *right-mindedness*. And in that moment, you are the Knower. And as a
Knower, you are free to have as many moments of that Knowing as *you* want
to experience.

So, beloved friends, merely observe the mind for a while, until you
learn to detect the difference between making and creating. You’ll come
to discover that creating is much more fun, takes a lot less energy or
effort, and creates a whole lot more joy within your own experience,
your own energy field. Delight in that simple practice, and remember:
you don’t have to go to a temple in Tibet to perfect it. For wherever
you are, you are in the Temple created for you by the Creator who loves
you and knows exactly how to enlighten, forevermore, the Mind of the
Creator that He has created. Enjoy creating!

And with that, indeed, beloved friends, peace be unto you always, you
who are eternally perfect Co-creators with our Father. Peace be unto you
always.

Amen.

---

## Question One

[*Question One*](/wom/questions/k06q1/): What is the difference between
*joy* and *pleasure*, and why do a lot of spiritual traditions denounce
pleasure?
{: .omit}

---

## Question Two

[*Question Two*](/wom/questions/k06q2): The Shanti Christo board
had a phone conference today, and I asked if anybody had any questions
for this tape. And they suggested that we just ask you if you could
speak to us — the board and the members as well — about the direction
we’re going and anything that you would care to address about the
frequency of Shanti Christo and what we can do to keep our frequencies
in alignment with the vision.
{: .omit}

