---
title: "Way of Knowing - Lesson Seven"
---

Now, we begin.

And indeed, once again, greetings unto you, beloved and holy friends. As
always, and though I have repeated this to you often, I say it to you
again, and yet again: It is with *joy* that I come forth to abide with
you, for *relationship* is the holiest of all places . . . relationship
between any two who choose to look upon each other, having looked within
and found no lack. For those two can then look out upon one another and
see only perfect innocence, only perfect peace, only perfect Love.

Therefore, it *is* with joy that I join with you, for I look upon you with
perfect peace, and perfect Love, and *perfect trust*. My *loyalty* to you is
unshakable. No event that occurs in the realm of your space and time can
*taint* the *loyalty* which I know to the depth of Truth that is your very
Self: that which is unshakable, unchanging, unchangeable, and unchanged,
forever. For my loyalty is perfectly pure. My trust of you is
unfathomable and immeasurable.

How can this be so? For perhaps, even now, your mind says:

> Well, yes, but last week I got a little angry with my spouse, and three weeks
> ago I forgot to pay for that candy bar I picked up in the store. Since I’m such
> a horrible dirt bag, your loyalty, Jeshua, is misplaced.

My trust in you emerges *from* my trust in my Father. My trust in you
emerges from the perfect knowledge that you belong *only* to That One that
I have called *Abba*. My trust, then, is the expression of what I have
come to know as I have looked in the depth of my own being, both within
my physical incarnation that became rather famous, and also since then,
where I discovered the perfection of Love that pervades all things, and
can be seen beneath the surfaces, through the appearances that the
body’s eyes and the ego’s thought system would show to you.

What do I mean by that? As you abide in your physical world, the
greatest challenge that you have, moment to moment, and moment to
moment, is to be vigilant against identifying with the perceptions which
are born and birthed as a result of the physical apparatus of the body,
itself. That is, you look out through a body; that is where your
attention seems to be. And your apparatus, called your eyes, immediately
shows you a world of objects separated by space. If you identify with
that level of perception, you can only conclude that you are separate,
one from another. And when you see events happening, it is absolutely
impossible to see the subtle interconnection of all events. You fall
into the trap of forgetting that you live in the Universe. And *universe*
means, simply, “one turning,” or “one song” — one event occurring, like
an ocean is but one event, expressing as many waves. So, too, do all
events in the field of space and time, in the field of physical matter,
merely emerge from that *one* Universe.

<!-- Track t2 -->

From the body’s level of perception, the thinking mind, in association
with the body, creates *interpretations* of what it *believes* it is seeing.
And now, your attention, your awareness, is already twice removed from
reality. First, you have become hoodwinked, thinking that what the
body’s eyes show you is what is truly real and significant. For
instance, you love someone. They are here today and tomorrow they leave.
You see them pack their things and their body leaves, and your eyes show
you that they are “gone.” Then the mind says,

> Woe is me. I have lost my love.

Neither of these is true.

The soul, the level at which Reality is far deeper than the level of the
body, can never “go” anywhere. No one you’ve ever met or known can ever
be outside of your heart through their *own action*. The body-mind, yes,
can leave, but that is not what takes someone out of your *heart*. It can
only be *your* decision to *withdraw love*. It is only the withdrawing of
love that creates separation in the experience of your awareness.

So there you’re sitting, two levels removed from Reality. First, you
have become hoodwinked, thinking that the physical eyes show you what is
true. Then you draw conclusions and create *interpretations* of the events
the body’s eyes show you. This creates the *emotional effect* that is like
a soup that runs through you and around you, and will remain so — until
it is healed.

The third level of being removed from Reality is the trick of the mind
in which it *insists* that its interpretations are fact. It is to this
level of the mind that I asked within *A Course in Miracles*,

> Would you rather be right or happy?

For happiness can be only the result of perfect *trust*. And perfect trust
emerges from a perfect *loyalty*. And a perfect loyalty emerges
spontaneously in the mind that has rested in *surrender*.

<!-- Track t3 -->

We’ve spoken often of the Keys to the Kingdom: desire, intention,
allowance, surrender. In allowance, you go through a period of deep
undoing, in which you, in a sense, disconnect the wiring that has led
you to *insist* on the rightness of the interpretations that you have
created and then linked to events that the physical body-mind has
perceived. So, as allowance is perfected, one has come to see that their
whole world, everything they’ve constructed, has been *undone*. That is,
your perception of belief, your perception of feeling nature, your
perception of what is, has been undone. The mind is unraveled.

Now, the perception of the body-mind, of course, goes on. The physical
eyes seem to show you that there is someone in another body over there,
and they’re doing what they’re doing, and you’re doing what you’re
doing, so there can’t be any connection. That level goes on as long as
there’s a body. However, the mind that is healing does not *identify* that
as the *primary level* of Reality.

And so, as allowance surrenders the construct that has been made up in
the mind and exists nowhere but in the mind — one rests in an
unobstructed allowance of how the body-mind goes through its days until
it returns to dust. But there is no longer a “being hoodwinked,” no
longer being attached, no longer being swept up with that level of
identification, because there is no longer a need to identify with the
interpretations. And there is no longer — quite happily — any need to be
right.

As allowance comes to completion, something quite magical occurs. It is
beyond all comprehension of the thinking mind. The ego could never
comprehend this! It is as though something which was existing because it
was contracted in fear dies and dissolves, like the mist before a rising
sun. And all that is left is a *quiet spaciousness* in which awareness has
been purified. Events still arise and pass away. One continues to talk
with their friends, perhaps as they always have. One notices the
tendency in the body-mind to create interpretations; and some of them
are quite necessary,

> That light just turned red. My interpretation is that it might be wise
> to stop.

But there is now something that is wrapped around all of that, so that
what is arising is seen as, ultimately, quite inconsequential, quite
innocent and devoid of any deep value. For you will place your *loyalty*
on what you have *decided* to value. And in that spaciousness, in that
perfect stillness, in that deep peace, mind — or *self*hood — dissolves in
surrender.

Anyone who has awakened knows exactly what that feels like. Anyone who
has begun to awaken has touched on moments of perfect surrender. For in
surrender, the mind beholds that all things that are arising and passing
away are perfectly harmless. They can hold no value, because they abide
in time. And the things of time are like the waves that arise from the
ocean — because they have a beginning, they *will* have an end. And in
their beginning, their end is certain. And only a fool would create
*loyalty* to that which is temporary, temporal and ultimately,
unfulfilling. But the wise of heart have decided to place their value on
that which is eternal. And what can be eternal, save God? And God *is* but
Love.

Therefore, in *The Way of the Heart*, and in *The Way of Transformation*,
and now, in *The Way of Knowing*, all that we have sought to share with
you has been by design, to lead you to see that *Love* is the only thing
worth valuing.

Love is unconditional. Love merely loves in order to abide in Its own
nature. And because God is but Love, as the mind disentangles itself
from the perceptual level of the body-mind, from the interpretations
selected and created in the mind and overlaid over those events, and
especially as it disentangles itself from the egoic need to be right
about its *makings*, that which you are — pure intelligence, pure infinite
creative possibility — shifts itself into being identified only with
valuing Love. This is the same thing as saying,

> I value only God.

Then, the soul begins to reawaken — this drop of pure Light, which is
pure intelligence — the soul begins to realize that to know God it must
*be* God. And since God is only Love, the soul desires to be only Love.
For in loving as God loves, God is known. And as God is known, Self is
realized and remembered. And the dream of the dreamer is transcended.

<!-- Track t4 -->

Therefore, indeed, beloved friends, my *trust* in you is perfect, for I
have come to value only God. My *loyalty* to *you* as the offspring of my
Father stems from having received that enlightenment for myself, having
awakened from the maze — the complex maze of perceptions in the
body-mind, the interpretations that the body-mind places on events, and
the ego’s construct of what it feels it is right about. Because I have
dissolved all of that, I abide in pure devotion only to what is *truly
real* and *perfectly unconditional*: the presence of my Father, which is
the same as the presence of Love.

Indeed, then, loyalty and trust . . . Look well to see what you have
chosen to be loyal *to*. And if it is loyal to something of the world, you
have actually been using loyalty as a way to overcome fear. Think about
it. I have often said that what is not Love is only fear. In a state of
Love, there is no clinging, there is no denial. There’s nothing
obstructed in the nature of the body’s experience. One renders unto
Caesar that which is Caesar’s. One sweats in the hot summer sun. One
simply is where one is, but the mind — the essence of your identity — is
as Love. All of the rest of it is superfluous.

And so, you find yourself in a maze of events called space and time. By
this, I mean you find yourself going to a job. You find yourself in a
certain third-dimensional relationship. But you’re not hoodwinked into
thinking that this place, this context, is the all. It is only an
opportunity for *you* to be the one who loves in the midst of that
context, simply for the sake of knowing Love. And though the career, or
the mate, or the car, or the flower, or the garden, or the boat —
whatever it is that is begun in time ends in time — it can come and go.
But your *delight* is in loving and embracing and being the field in which
these events rise and fall.

If you are loyal to a person, place, or thing, look well to see: Is
there, underneath, a fear that you have not yet been honest about? Are
you being loyal in order to have this person, place, or thing approve of
you and stay with you so that you get something that you want? And
there’s nothing wrong with that. Do not think that because you look and
see,

> You know, the bottom line is, I really like this job and the hundred and
> twenty thousand dollars a year that it pays me. I really like the sense of
> security that gives me.

It doesn’t mean you have to give it up and go live penniless on the
street. What matters is that you become perfectly *honest* with what
you’re doing, and withdraw the tendency of the mind to say:

> Well, I’m really doing this career because I really believe that the
> product that we create is making a huge impact on the planet. I believe
> we can really make things different. And besides, you know, we give
> jobs, and we give money to charities. And that’s why I’m here.

Oh, nonsense! In the world, you will do what you do because of where you
place your value. This is why I’ve often said,

> If you want to know truly what you <span class="tr_normal">idolize</span>,
> what you are <span class="tr_normal">committed</span> to, what you most deeply
> <span class="tr_normal">believe</span>, merely look at <span
> class="tr_normal">where</span> you are, <span class="tr_normal">who</span>
> you’re with, and <span class="tr_normal">what</span> you’re doing with your
> time, and how you <span class="tr_normal">feel</span> about it — truthfully.

Those that insist on saving up money for a rainy day are merely stating,

> I believe there can be a rainy day, unless I do something to prevent it.

Their trust has been placed in their power to manipulate and use the
world to create what they perceive they must have. And it is very, very
different than the trust of the one awakened in God who knows that
whatever arises and passes away in the field of space and time is
inconsequential. Because *that* mind is so identified with being the
presence of Love that the body-mind could contract cancer tomorrow and,

> Who cares!

<!-- Track t5 -->

The mind that rests in freedom has learned to translate — to transfer —
trust and loyalty to Love. That mind has come to enjoy the peace that
comes with only loving. For what harm can come to the mind that simply
loves . . . who looks upon all things and sees its perfect innocence and
plays in the kingdom provided by that one’s Father — the kingdom of the
body-mind, the kingdom of space and time, the kingdom of the power to
choose Love over fear?

This is why I suggested to this, my beloved brother, the simple thought:
Suffering comes from being identified with *form*, whether it be the body,
a belief, a career, a context of experience of any kind. For all
experience comes and goes. Liberation and deep peace come from being
identified with *content*. And by *content*, here, we simply mean the *matrix
or the source* out of which all possibilities are, indeed, possible. It
is like a musician who comes to appreciate the field of silence out of
which notes can arise in a certain temporal order, in order to create a
beautiful melody. If it were not for the silence between the notes, no
song could have ever touched your heart.

The matrix of Love, which is the presence of the Father, the Pure
Intelligence, the Field in which all things arise and pass away and
never changes . . . that Field is like a canvas upon which the Grand
Artist paints. But the master artist knows that without the canvas,
there is nothing, and, therefore, *honors* the blank canvas *first*.

Loyalty and trust are significant things to ponder. Each time — and
there is a process of growth, of course — each time you begin to see
that what you have placed your trust in cannot really, truly, fulfill
the soul, it is as though a structure crumbles. Now, what is actually
occurring? You, as infinite being, have merely realized that you have
been hoodwinked, that’s all. And you are withdrawing value from what you
placed your trust in. That feels like a crumbling. And it literally is a
crumbling at the subtle level of energy that constructs a perceptual
belief system about the nature of experience.

For instance, to give you a simple example, if one believes that they
must have coffee every morning in order to get going, and then later in
life, for whatever reason, they come to see that they never needed it at
all, they may go ahead and enjoy their coffee, but it will never be for
the same reason. That structure of belief will crumble and they will
literally see life differently.

And each and every one of you can pause this tape right now and merely
ponder what structures of belief have crumbled in your life. Has it not
always led to a sense of greater expansion, deeper wisdom, a more
certain Knowing?

In other words, life proceeds from illusion to Reality. And as the soul
awakens, it, literally, feels a sense of expansion and growth. But the
growth has nothing at all to do with the body getting bigger, or the
bank account growing, or having more children. You all know that as
wisdom is reawakened in the mind, there is a sense of growth. And that
kind of growth becomes all-attractive to you.

When you become so much a *lover* of the wisdom of perfect union with God,
so that that’s all that matters to you, you’re already ninety percent
free of illusion. And the world will never have the power to truly bind
you again.

Place, then, your trust in the Love that birthed you. And when I say,
“birthed you,” I am NOT talking about the body. I am NOT talking about
your personal history, your ego. The “you” that I refer to exists within
and prior to all of that. It is as though your Father has created you as
the powerful ocean in which you have been — knowingly or unknowingly —
emanating all of the waves that have become your particular experience
as the soul. *That* is what God has created. Trust the One that created
*you* as an *infinite source of awareness* that is perfectly free in every
moment to decide what experience it will have.

<!-- Track t6 -->

Why is this important? You see, your world would teach you, and the
level of perception of the body-mind would say,

> Well, I want to have an experience. Oh, I just had a thought of having
> an ice cream cone. Well, I’ve experienced driving my body to the ice
> cream store and eating ice cream.

That event does occur. But if you look closely, you’ll discover that
your *experience* is the *value* you place *upon* the event. I know that seems
subtle to you, but it’s very, very important. *Experience actually occurs
nowhere but in the field of the mind.*

You could just as easily go to store and eat ice cream and have your
mind on a book that you’re writing, or the remembrance of a great love
affair or a great movie from the night before, and never even notice the
taste of the ice cream. And you get home, and your wife or husband says,

> Well, dear, did you have a good trip to the ice cream store?
> 
> Oh! Oh, that’s right. I think I did stop … I … You know, to tell you the
> truth, I don’t even remember what I had!

So where does experience occur? It does *not* occur at the level of the
body-mind itself. It occurs at the level of *mind*. And *mind shapes
experience according to what it chooses to value*.

Now, does that mean that you just drop doing anything in the world? No.
An Awakened being in the world simply delights and has fun — *from a
state of clarity of knowing* that whatever they choose to do with the
body-mind is merely a free choice based on what they’re choosing to
value in the moment. And if they own that valuation, they can totally
enjoy the experience they’re having.

And then, they have come full circle. If they want to design a website,
if they want to be a banker, if they want to be a dancer, a prostitute,
a farmer — *it no longer matters*! For the mind that is awake, while the
body lasts, merely sees experience arise and pass away. It takes total
ownership and realizes that *It* has the power to create its experience as
being delightful, fulfilling, and a blessing — *regardless* of what the
body-mind is actually doing.

There can be no difference, you see. It doesn’t matter if you are a
teacher standing at the shores of a great lake in what you now call your
Israel, standing at a boat, talking to a hoard of hundreds, or perhaps
seeing if you can actually make a few fish and loaves of bread feed five
thousand,

> Oh! How about that! That was fun!

There is no difference between that and driving a truck in New York City
and delivering frozen fish, if the mind within the soul is taking
complete ownership and delighting in the mystery of creating experience,
and chooses to bring enjoyment and freedom to that moment.

This is why events of the world can never bind you. All suffering comes
because of the interpretation you are *overlaying* over events. And in
that very moment, you have used God’s gift to you, which is the *power* of
awareness, to create its experience.

Once again, my crucifixion was my final learning lesson in the
realization that I had broken the spell. I was no longer under the spell
of the egoic mind, or the body-mind. I merely looked upon my experience
and decided to freely be in a state of Love in the midst of that
context.

*You* are free to be in a state of Love in the midst of any context, as
you watch and observe the waves of temporality come and go. And as you
see that happen, and as you develop that capacity within yourself —
through the *choices* for Love, through the *choices* for forgiveness,
through the *choices* to be happy instead of right, to live in innocence
and wonder instead of certainty and dread, to rest in True Knowledge,
True Knowing, rather than the relative knowledge of the world — you come
to see that all that is arising and passing away can never leave you,
that loss is impossible. For where the mind chooses to rest in Love, all
things that arise and pass away are remembered and restored and
sanctified. There is perfect peace.

And though a beloved friend passes away in what you call “death,”
because you do not identify the friend with the body-mind, because you
do not, then, perceive that you can no longer love your friend, you just
enjoy loving your friend. And as you abide in *Love*, you begin to
experience the Reality that nothing dies. Nothing dies! For pure
intelligence can go nowhere. You had one of your scientists once say:

> Well, how about this! I think I have figured it out. Energy is what
> makes up everything, and it can never go anywhere. It can only change
> form. But the essence, or the energy, remains.

This is not unlike a mystic, or a sage, or a great savior or messiah, or
a very ordinary everyday person waking up and going:

> You know, only Love is Real! And in Love, all things exist forever. I’m not
> separate. I am not lost. I am free!

The great journey in the field of space and time is to allow that
awareness to settle into your beingness so that that quality of
awareness *permeates* and *pervades* the level of the egoic mind, the level
of interpretation, and the level of perception, or energy, at the level
of the body-mind — the apparatus of the nervous system brain. All of
that’s still going on, but you begin to *pervade* it with the growing
awareness that only Love is Real, that,

> I have the power to extend forgiveness.

Every time the mind trusts in the One that created it, and rests in that
peace, a miracle occurs. Every time that you have extended forgiveness,
a miracle has occurred, for you have withdrawn valuation of an old
perceptual system and chosen for Reality. The enlightened sage is merely
one who has cultivated the practice of training the mind to choose for
the Reality of Love under all circumstances. And through that one’s many
successes, they have come to know that what they have chosen is true.
God has been revealed. *Loyalty* is no longer a question.

<!-- Track t7 -->

Trust and loyalty, then, must flow from the mind in its power to choose
what it will value. Be you, therefore, *loyal* to Love. Be you, therefore,
*loyal* to your perfect union with God. *Trust* That One who birthed you and
who has been guiding your journey home all along. For remember, I have
said often, that from the very moment the dream of separation began to
be dreamed, already the answer was provided, called the Holy Spirit, the
right-mindedness in the depth of your being that cannot be touched.

Rest in the right-mindedness of choosing only Love. Extend complete
freedom to the waves that come and go. And in this sense, the weather is
a wave, Caesar is a wave, your spouse is a wave; that is, as you would
look at them as a body-mind. They are a wave. They will come and they
will go. But if you abide in the Field of Love, you abide in
timelessness and eternity. You abide as the spaciousness that embraces
all things, trusts all things, and thereby, transcends all things.

Here, then, beloved friends, is the pure essence of loyalty and trust:
If your *loyalty* is in anything that can crumble, you have merely not yet
fully chosen to place your loyalty in that which cannot crumble. If your
*trust* is in a requirement that individuals act and behave in a certain
way, you have not yet come to trust the perfection of Love that is
already at work in everyone’s lives, calling them to deeper levels of
remembrance.

See, then, the perfection of all events. For the waves that arise in the
temporality called the world have no power, in and of themselves. They
are already held in the arms of a perfectly loving God, and each event
*truly* serves no purpose save to nudge that soul, that spark of pure
awareness or intelligence, to look deeper beyond its illusions.

When anyone attacks you or projects upon you, they are merely crying out
in their own fear and insanity. The Awakened One looks upon them with
Love and merely says,

> Oh, is that so? Well, very well. Yes, thank you for sharing. Have a nice day,

and goes on trusting and lets their life be an expression of the loyalty
that they give *only* to the Voice of the Holy One within them.

<!-- Track t8 -->

Trust and loyalty. Another way to approach the subject is to simply look
and see,

> Where are my idols? What am I attached to, and why?

Remember that those with thoughts of “I” and “mine” know not the true
nature of things. When you say, “my car,” or “my wife,” you’re not
dealing with Reality, for all things belong to God. There is nothing
that you can possess *except* the Reality of what you *are* as the Thought
of Love in form.

Come to see, then, that when you choose Love, you become free. Who can
harm you? What gain or loss can affect your peace? And in each moment,
as you remember Love, you give Love. And everywhere you go, and everyone
you see, is touched in a quiet and secret place. They may not know why
they feel attracted to being in your presence, but *you* will know. You
are simply choosing to *be* — and mark my words well here — you are merely
choosing to finally *awaken* and *be* GOD INCARNATE. For God is but Love,
and when you love, there is only God.

Remember then always, beloved friends, that that which crumbles can only
be form and not content. Love can never crumble, because it is the
content which is the presence of God’s Reality. Because Love is content,
it is unchangeable, unchanged, and unchanging forever. Perfect freedom
comes to any mind that *shifts its identity* from the level of the body,
from the level of the interpretive mind, from the level of the egoic
mind that *insists* its constructs are real and correct and valuable, and
becomes identified with Love.

Identity with what is conditional and temporal can never produce what is
*unconditional* and *atemporal*, or eternal. The power of mind can leap from
the conditioned to the unconditional, through the *decision* to place
*value* only on *that*.

Well do I understand that what arises within the body-mind is a fear of
survival. And yet, it is a useless fear, since the body-mind, from the
moment of its conception, has been marching inexorably toward its
demise. And if the body-mind, itself, is completely *powerless* (which it
is) to exist as eternity, everything dependent on the body-mind must
crumble with it. Everything, then, built as a house upon the foundation
of your having become identified with the perceptual level of the
body-mind, the interpretations of the thinking mind, and the insistence
of the egoic mind on being right — these are all like floors in a house
built on a foundation of error and illusion — you might as well own it
now: they are going to crumble.

Illusions have no life. That is what makes them illusions. Only in
Reality is Life finally found. Yes, you do feel that crumbling going on,
for what crumbles in the mind sends a shock wave, like a ripple, down
through the body-mind, through the brain, through the nervous system,
and the body shakes and groans, and maybe it complains and cries, but
it’s nothing more than the crumbling of illusion.

Eventually, the body, itself, must crumble as an illusion. For the mind
that grows in the radiance of its awakening must finally put away the
entire physical dimension as a toy outgrown. The body-mind, the nervous
system, can no longer contain you, for what you *value* is the radiance of
merely *being* the presence of God’s Love. You begin to realize that you
don’t need a body-mind at all to operate, in order to extend Love. *While*
the body-mind *lasts*, love it, embrace it, allow it, don’t expect great
things from it, just use it as a temporary communication device.

<!-- Track t9 -->

Since what you want is Love, practice teaching *only* Love. Teaching Love
is not talking *about* Love, not about the philosophy of Love, not about
the metaphysics of Love. You teach Love by *being loving* in each moment.
And you can only be loving by allowing yourself to *feel* the presence of
Love *in* and *as* your moment-to-moment experience.

Because Love is unconditional, you are free now. No set of circumstances
must change *before* you have the power to be in Love. This is the same
things as saying that God is given to you by Grace in each moment, and
you are asked only to open and receive. Only Love is Real. Only Love
allows you to transcend the great fear, the great suffering, that comes
only from a temporary, mistaken identity problem — an authority problem.
You think your construct of the world is your authority. You think the
body-mind is who you really are. This is merely an identity problem, an
authority problem. When you come to know that you are merely the
expression of That One — Pure Spirit, Love — you are free from the
world.

Now, will the world “get it?” Will the world go,

> Oh, well gee! I’m really glad that you are free. Gee whiz!

Of course not, since the world is the attempt to be *other* than the Truth
of the Kingdom. Therefore, when anyone projects upon you at any time,
when anyone is in any way anything *but* loving, it can only be because
they are still choosing to insist on the rightness of their construct of
the sensory data, that has come through their nervous system, which they
have been identified with. In other words, they’re living in illusions.

Only Love is Real. And if you want to be with one who is sane and awake,
be only with one who chooses to teach only Love. Let *those* be your
friends. Let *those* be your playmates. Let *those* be your lovers and your
spouses, for only they are capable of honoring the Truth that is true
always, and seeing it as the very essence of your soul. That is why
there is a great attraction to anyone who is awake, for they “see” you.
They see you to your *essence*, because they see *from* their own. These two
are but one and the same, for the Holy Son of God is One. Choose,
therefore, Love and transcend the suffering that is the world.

<!-- Track t10 -->

Look well, then, beloved friends, over the next thirty days. Enjoy
merely looking at where you have placed your loyalty in the past, where
you are placing it now. And look at the grand journey that you’ve made.
What on earth has changed your loyalty from your teddy bear to God, if
not God, Herself?

Think not, then, that you have been apart from that One. For in each
moment of your experience, even as you believed in the illusions that
the body’s eyes would show you, already That One, who is but Love, was
working to dissolve your illusions, one by one, in the way unique to the
dynamics of your own soul.

When the ship sails into the harbor, it is Home. The long journey is
forgotten. And, perhaps, there will be a few stories told in the pub as
everyone has a beer. But in a day or two, a week or a month, the journey
fades from awareness. And friends merely abide together, growing
flowers, dancing in the evenings, observing the sunset, giving hugs and
kisses. When the ship sails into the harbor, the journey is over. And
there is only calm water, though around it the storm may rage. Let it!
*Let the storm of life rage.* Merely identify with the peace beyond all
understanding, the peace that comes as a mind comes to choose only
identity with Love. Peace, beloved friends, is the result of the *shift
of identity* which emerges by placing your trust and loyalty only in That
One who is only Love.

Allow, then, everything else to crumble. And does that mean you must
give up your golden coins? Of course not! For that would be to say that
the golden coins have a power to bind you. They do not! Neither the
having of them or the lack thereof can bind you. Only your decision not
to love can bind you and make you suffer.

Give, then, perfect freedom to all created things, for they belong not
to you, nor were they given to you to give you security or to boost your
ego, or to make you happy. They are given for your enjoyment and for you
to bless, for the Christ who walks this Earth knows that His or Her
primary purpose is to bless the Father’s creations, to set all things
free in the sanctity of their own deep and perfect union with God.

Seek to possess nothing or no one. Seek to change nothing and no one.
Seek only to love. And in Love, you are set free.

So then, as we would end this time together, as you stop your tape,
simply make the decision to spend five minutes doing nothing but loving
all that you see through the body’s eyes, all that you notice arising in
the mind as a memory or an image of a friend, or what-have-you, or an
event — any event that has occurred. Simply decide to love it, that’s
all. And then, try to tell yourself that peace is a long way off. It is
present in every decision for Love.

Therefore, indeed, with perfect trust and perfect loyalty, I look upon
you and already know that you are borne on the wings of that Love that
carries you away to Itself. In perfect trust and loyalty I look upon the
holy and only begotten Child of God, and *know* that the dream of
separation has already been corrected, and you abide in perfect safety —
now!

For the events of space and time can *never* touch or alter the Spirit,
the Pure Intelligence, the Infinite Awareness, that is the Truth of who
you are.

It is up to you to decide to enjoy that Power of Awareness by selecting
*only* loving thoughts.

Peace, beloved friends, be with you always.

Amen.

