---
title: "Way of Knowing - Lesson Nine"
---

Now, we begin.

And indeed, once again, greetings unto you, beloved and holy friends. As
always, I come forth to abide with you because you have asked. As
always, I come forth to abide with you because, in Truth, there is
nowhere else that I could be. For where you are, I am. And where I am,
you are. We abide, then, as the One Mind, birthed from the very Heart of
*Abba*, or God. There is nothing outside of us. And from within, there is
nothing hidden. Though the dimensions of Creation be infinite, they
abide within the Mind, or the Field of Consciousness, that we share as
One.

Because this is true — and I assure you that it is — there is, indeed,
only one task which must be accomplished, one realization that must be
realized, one Reality to be expressed and lived. And that simple Truth
is that there is only One, that there is only Heaven, that there is only
Love, that there is only the Perfect Peace that passes all
understanding, that keeps, indeed, your hearts *in Mind*. For your heart,
or your soul — that which is all that you have experienced throughout
the multitude of your lifetimes upon this tiny planet, all of the
experiences that you have garnered since before the beginning of time
throughout all of the multitude of dimensions — the soul, or the heart,
resides within the Mind of God, within the Mind of Christ; for these are
One and the same.

Therefore, beloved friends, know always that the only Truth that must be
lived, as you enter into the firm commitment of *choice*, to abiding in
*The Way of Knowing*, is simply that there is only One Thing. You are That
One. Your brother and your sister are That One. And though bodies come
and go, though time seems to arise and pass away, though the dance of
relationship, of career, of weather patterns, seems to come and go, it
is only the *unenlightened mind* that looks for great signs in these
things.

In Truth, within the field of your soul, within all of the field of
experiences that you call to yourself, the same gift is being offered.
The gift offered to you, that by Grace you might decide to see that the
world of ever-changing form means nothing — *the world means nothing*. It
does not, nor has it *ever*, existed, except in the perceptions *conjured
up* within the *field* of mind that seems to be particularly related to
your soul. Now even that is a bit of an illusion.

But the point is simply this: In *The Way of Knowing*, there is a quiet
decision to accept the Truth that is true always, to surrender, to open
the palms of the hands and to release the tight grip upon the value, the
meaning, and the *rightness* of the perceptions you have made to veil
Reality. You are that Reality. All things are that Reality. The forms
that the physical eyes show you arise and pass away. Yet, in each
moment, Mind remains perfectly clear, perfectly One. Only the *spell* of
the mind that believes itself to be the body creates suffering, creates
doubt, creates illusion.

<!-- Track t2 -->

Wherever you are, then, in this very moment, you can *only* be where, in
Truth, I am. Wherever I seem to be in this moment, I can *only be* where
*you* are. For indeed, in *The Way of Knowing*, what must come to be
released is the mistaken perception that there is, or has ever been, a
separate “I” that is localized where the body-mind is.

To release this illusion is to see that all things are simply one thing:
automobiles, plants, trees, clouds, thoughts arising and passing away.
They appear in different forms, but they are but one thing. Looking
through such an Enlightened Mind, because It no longer sees the veil of
the false “I” standing between Itself as a filter and Its *recognition* of
Its union with — Its identity with — all things arising and passing away
... such a Mind looks out upon a transfigured world, a world in which
the veil has been lifted. And That Mind sees only Itself. It *sees* that
the very things It had been judging as imperfect, as It looked out upon
the world — that It had been judging through fear, that It had been
judging through self-doubt — those very things, of themselves, are
perfect; that they are, indeed, the Kingdom of Heaven.

This is why the distance between where you are and where I am is,
indeed, a distance that cannot be measured. For, in Reality, there is no
gap. In Reality, separation does not exist. In Reality, your *fall from
Grace* and your movement into unenlightenment, itself has been but an
illusion. The very life you have been living is *absolutely perfect*. The
life you are living now is *absolutely perfect*. And it hasn’t anything at
all to do with where the body-mind goes. It has nothing to do with
whether you watch a movie or read a book, whether you make money or do
not, whether the body-mind lives or dies. The life you have been living
is the life of awareness, of consciousness, of perfect freedom to create
whatever perception you choose to hold. You are free, then, in all
moments, to see that what has been arising as the Life of your very Self
is the Life and Mind of God.

A Mind so awakened looks out and sees that there are no problems. Such a
Mind looks out upon the world and sees no reason to change it, for It is
now looking at a world that has *already* been *healed*, already been
*transfigured*, already — through alchemical fires, if you will — been
*purified* and made whole again. For, in Reality, It sees that that
wholeness was *never once lost*. The dream of separation occurs within a
space of mind that is nowhere, that holds no value and no purpose.

Fear, then, has no power over *you*. Death has no power over *you*. You
abide, then, in the only place ever created for you. You are not
localized to the body or the particular personality that you have
associated with as your “I” — that, in itself, is part of the spell, or
the drama, or the dream, of separation.

<!-- Track t3 -->

In *The Way of Knowing*, there is a simple and quiet decision to behold
that — as the body-mind plays itself out, as the coming and going of all
forms *around* you and *within* you, as your own unique perceptual field
changes and dances and ebbs and flows (and we’ll get to why it does that
in just a moment), as all of these things that seem to be within you in
your private world (and that’s a bit of a misnomer) and in your external
world (that you think is yours and not someone else’s) — all of these
things are innocent, harmless, they hold no power, and there is no
Reality in them. And yet, they are Reality, Itself, when seen through
eyes that are not identified with the false “I,” with the localized
sense of identity. Even the body-mind, that you once called your “self,”
is merely seen to arise and pass away in the vast expanse of your true
Self, the Self that is shared by all beings in all dimensions — always.

It was this understanding that allowed me to simply choose to give
myself over to what was called the crucifixion. An Enlightened
Consciousness knows that loss is impossible. An Enlightened
Consciousness knows that gain is also impossible. And yet, an
Enlightened Consciousness, resting in the Certainty of Perfect Knowing,
merely abides in Reality. That means there is no resistance to the
coming and going of the body, no resistance to the grand display of
energies that make up what you call your world. Governments rise and
fall, a new model automobile is unveiled, to the flash of a thousand
camera bulbs — some minds take it as being a very serious thing, some
don’t even notice — and *all* of it is *you*! All of it is arising in the
vast expanse of the perfectly free Mind that belongs to no one, and yet,
in which, all Ones arise.

An Enlightened Mind, then, whether it is experiencing — temporarily in
the body-mind — sadness, joy, anger, guilt, hurt, ecstasy, lovemaking, a
piece of fruit, cold wind on the skin ... All of these things are
merely allowed without resistance to be exactly what they are, while
That Mind perceives and knows them to be harmless, vast, eternal,
radiating the Light that God is.

For in Truth, in the end, as we come near the end of this year of *The
Way of Knowing*, the Truth must be told ever more simply and ever more
simply. There is only Reality. That Reality I have called *Abba*. That One
is One *with* me, and I am That One. That One is One with *you*, and You are
That One.

In the end, then, what seems to be *radical* to a world caught in the
spell of the small self, seemingly playing its drama out through the
field of many, many body-minds, the Truth does, indeed, become radical:

__The Truth is that all that arises and passes away is, indeed, God. There
is *only* God. There can *only be* God. And you are That.__

For in the end, even the creative teaching device of God and Son,
Creator and Created, begins to slip away, as duality becomes the One, as
illusion — the last traces of illusion — finally give way to Truth.

All things that arise and pass away are perfectly okay. All
opportunities to experience the awareness of *Love’s presence* are okay.
Every opportunity to experience the contraction of *fear* is okay. For
these things arise *only in* the field of the perfectly free Mind that you
are.

So you see, in the end, it is not so much about cutting out certain
experiences and having only certain ones that you’ve decided hold value.
It is, rather, to see that *all* such experiences are transitory. A moment
of ecstasy or a moment of sadness are *one and the same* for the
Enlightened Mind. There is only that Vast Expanse that allows all
things. And when *nothing* is any longer unacceptable to you, in the field
of what seems to be your own unique, particular experience, you will
know that you are Home. Things arise and pass away, and you remain.

<!-- Track t4 -->

Beloved friends, I Am indeed That One that birthed Christ. I Am indeed
That One that walked this Earth as a man and manifested the fullness of
Myself, to reveal Myself *to* Myself. You are That One that birthed Jeshua
ben Joseph. You are That One that set in motion the great drama of the
dream of separation and its correction. You are, indeed, That One, that
alone exists unchanging, unchangeable, and unchanged forever.

And yet, when the mind has been under the spell of thoroughly believing
it is a separate body-mind, and that body is, indeed, the source of the
“spell” that creates the illusion of a localized, separate self, a soul
that has no connection to anyone else or anything else ... In the
field of the body-mind, if I were to have come to you three, four, five,
ten, two thousand years ago and said,

> You are, alone, That One. You are God and only God exists,

your fear, already present, would have been heightened. And so I came to
you in the guise of a man known as Jeshua ben Joseph. I played out a
perfectly clear *drama*, like so many body-minds. I allowed Myself to be
perceived as a unique individual, since *you* believed that unique
individuals exist.

You saw Me as separate from you. And so I appeared in the way that you
could see Me and understand Me. And I have gone on, without ceasing, to
appear in ways that you can see Me and understand Me, to speak in
languages and words, metaphors and parables, teaching tools that you
could receive without *increasing* your illusion of fear. All teaching
devices, then — and in this guise even the appearance of Myself as
Jeshua ben Joseph, was but a temporary teaching tool.

All teaching and communication devices have one, simple goal: To reduce
fear so that that particular mind can release its grip on *itself* and
surrender the illusion of separation and thereby, be bathed in the Light
of Reality yet again — seeing that It is What I Am. And I Am God. I AM
Abba. You Are God. You Are Abba. Only That One Exists. Only the “I” that
We share as One exists.

I appear as every blade of grass. I appear as every thought. I appear as
every desire. I appear as every cloud in the sky. I appear as You. You
*are* That One that I Am. I Am speaking to you, and yet, You are speaking
to You. You hear Me, but you hear only Yourself.

Understand well, then, that I, as Jeshua ben Joseph, Am but the
appearance of God in a particular form, so that you could come closer to
the Truth of Your Nature without recoiling in fear. It is, indeed, said
in the Bible that,

> No man looks upon the Face of God and lives.

That statement means simply that the mind that is not yet enlightened,
therefore living in fear, living in the perception of itself being
separate from God, cannot look upon the *Face* of God, the *Reality* of God,
and *live*. It was not a fearful statement at all. It was simply the
Truth. For when the mind looks and beholds,

> There is only God and I Am That,

the *false self* has, indeed, died. Where did it go? Nowhere. Because it
*never existed* in the first place. And that which closes the gap, though
it may be said to you in many forms, is the *decision* to give up seeking
and acknowledge that you have found.

All teaching devices, all forms of language that I have brought forth
have been by design to *woo* you, to *seduce* you, to *calm* you into *Knowing*
that You Are God. And the final gap then is, indeed — the final step —
is taken *by Me*. And that final step taken by Me is the final step taken
*by You*. For that final step into the fullness of enlightenment can only
be *God recognizing that only God Is*. And You *Are That*.

<!-- Track t5 -->

Where else could we come to in such a series of tapes, entitled *The Way
of Knowing*? By *Way of Knowing*, it was never intended to be a set of
lessons that will someday *get you there*, but rather the very *Way* of
Knowing — to walk the journey of Creation, *Knowing* that it is God doing
the walking ... To walk in the Knowingness that all things that arise
inhere in God, and You Are That ... To finally be willing to look at a
tree and Know that the Eye of God is seeing God, and the Tree of God is
being eyed by God.

You are, indeed, That One, infinite, eternal, unbounded, so intimately
linked with every one of your brothers and sisters that there is no such
separation, nor anything to fear. And there is yet this infinitely
magical process in which *Mind* is realized within a body-mind. That is,
*you* can be perfectly enlightened *now*, by simply seeing the Truth that
the thought you have held of yourself has never been true. It was only a
temporary spell — God forgetting, God playing to be other than God. And
yet, that play is the very fullness of God. For in the end, the “fall
from Grace,” the *separation from union*, by whatever term you choose to
use it, that very thing, *itself*, cannot be outside the Mind of God.

All that your eyes show you is innocent and free. All that the mind can
conjure as thought is innocent and free. You are free to be That One who
as the Mind of Christ — which, by the way, is God — shows up in the
transfigured body-mind. Where once there was a false sense of “I,” now
there is only the free, unobstructed Field of Awareness of God observing
Creation *through* His Creation ... God observing His Creation *through*
His Creation.

Imagine, then, that you are, indeed, That One, and *you* choose to pick up
a particular body-mind that everyone *thought* was called Fred or Nancy or
Harry or what have you. You put on the body-mind for the simple
enjoyment of looking out through it to observe what Creation is like
from that perspective. Not unlike one who would go to a costume ball,
puts on a certain costume just to *play* at being Louis the Fourteenth or
Lady Godiva; Mother Mary. Or, if you want to be very radical, Jesus of
Nazareth.

You have already put on all of those costumes. You are the Creator of
all of those costumes. You Are God. There is *only* God. There can only *be*
God. And as you listen to sounds vibrating through the air, through your
tape machine — the machine, the vibration, the words, the insights and
pictures that are flowing through the field of the mind, the “you” who
is listening and the “I” who is speaking are all One Thing: God.

Fear not then, beloved friends. Fear not the coming and going of the
life of the body-mind. For that life, in itself, is already perfectly
unobstructed and free. It *cannot* hinder the Truth of who you are when
you choose to see *from* the Truth of *what* you are. Dare then, as we begin
to conclude this year of *The Way of Knowing*, to live, what is this
called in your world, the “impossible dream.” Dare to begin to see that
You are God, perceiving — looking out upon — God’s Creation. And God’s
Creation is only God!

<!-- Track t6 -->

Yes, in the end, you can even say that God has created nothing. For
nothing can be *outside* of what God Is. I have given unto you many clues
over the years. I have told you that if God forgot to think about you
for one moment, you would cease to be. Think about what that must mean.
It *must* mean that you are inhering so much in God, that a simple thought
in the Mind of God both creates you or destroys you. In the flash of an
eye, you either are in existence or you are not. And yet, what could
then be in existence *but* the Will of God? If you exist, you must be in
the Mind of God — that Perfect Power by which all things arise and pass
away.

And God’s Creation occurs nowhere. That is, It has no location. The
planet Earth, the bodies that inhabit it, the physical universe in which
the planet Earth is spinning about — all of these things are not at all
unlike what you experience when you close your eyes and imagine having
ice cream. You create the image. You have the experience. You see
yourself giving the cashier your golden coins (or in this case, perhaps,
some of your silver coins). You eat the ice cream. You see yourself
smile. You can feel it move down into your belly. Where did all of that
exist? Could anybody find it outside the power of consciousness to
create? No.

You are like the ice cream in the Mind of God. God sees Himself,
appearing as you, doing exactly what you are doing in each and every
moment. And if God, *for one split second*, dropped the thought of you,
you would entirely disappear. And all of those beings around you, who
you think are different people, would instantly have no recollection of
you, whatsoever.

There can only be God. You are God’s Dream. You are God’s Creation. You
are God’s *Child*, in the sense that you are God shaping Itself into a
temporary expression of Itself. And for what purpose? To simply extend
Creation. You *are* That One! *All Power under Heaven and Earth resides
within you!* When you bend to pick up a glass, God is embracing God! And
if God were not choosing that, in that moment, you would cease to be.
Even the body would vanish from view.

As Jeshua ben Joseph, then, I have appeared to you to be your brother
and friend, because *you* have believed that you needed some *one* to be a
brother and friend, who will let you know that you are safe so that you
can give yourself permission to nod your head yes, and say,

> I can accept that now. Thank you for being here, Jeshua.

And yet, in Truth, you are God merely playing out that field of
relationship, the quality of experience that seems to require an elder
brother who has gone through quite a change and now has the voice of
authority.

But I have no voice unless you give it to me. And what can give such
authority, if not the Mind of God? For it takes One to know One. You
have heard me say that many, many times. It can only be the Christ Mind
*in you* that could perceive the Christ Mind in Jeshua ben Joseph. And the
Christ Mind is the extension of God’s Perfect Being into, and as,
Creation.

When you look lovingly upon anyone, *You are God*. For God is but Love.
You have heard me say many times, Love is the essence of what You are.
If God is Love, and Love is the essence of what You are, this can only
mean that the essence of You is God — right here, right now, with not
one thing that must be done to *earn* it, to *shape* it, to *get* it. This is
why no form of technique brings the Son to the Father.

This is why I once said, even through this my beloved “Son,” if you
will, in what was called once, *The Jeshua Letters* — again, only a
teaching device given to those who could accept Me in the guise of
Jeshua ben Joseph, for you had already decided to give Me authority to
guide you through that form — this is why I said unto you that no prayer
or supplication brings the Son to the Father, but only in the release of
illusion. And that illusion, when you’ve peeled it all down in the way
that you have insisted on peeling it down, is to come to see that the
notion you have held of your self, as having a separate existence, being
a separate “I,” has been false. It is a smoke screen, a guise, a veil.
Your perception or belief that that is what you were, as opposed to
being everything else, is the illusion that must be released.

And in *The Way of Knowing*, what I am offering to you as, indeed, your
Creator, and the Essence of All that You Are, is the opportunity to
choose this context to decree that only God exists, that the very
body-mind and the self you once thought you were is now embodied,
inhabited by, the Creator, Itself. That when the hand moves to pick up
the glass, it is no longer “I,” but God; no longer “me,” as a separate
struggling being, but God who *moves* the hand, God who is *aging* the hand,
and God who is *the aging* of the hand. *All things* can only be That which
I Am.

I Am One and singular and whole and you should have no other gods before
Me, no other thoughts or illusions before Me, not even a sense of an “I”
going to God. Then there is only God. And Reality has descended to make
Its home in the Field of Awareness where once you thought there was
something else.

<!-- Track t7 -->

We have enjoined with you to create *The Way of The Heart*, to begin to
speak in such a way to you that would not elicit fear, to which you
could nod your head and say,

> Yes, yes. That sounds true to me. I’ll accept this.

And then, we spoke to you of *The Way of Transformation*, where you
perceived yourself as one in *need* of transformation. And, again, you
nodded your heads and said,

> We’ll accept this. Yes, I am a sinful creature, still in need of
> transformation. I’ll buy into this as the context in which I receive
> more of the Truth about myself.

And in *The Way of Knowing*, which is now, we begin to bring you, full
force, into that which you have chosen to bring yourself to — to stand
at the doorway of the Temple of Heaven, to begin to open it, to let the
Golden Light stream out.

And as you look into that sanctuary to see, it is *Yourself* upon the
throne. This is why I have also said that Self-love — *Self-love* — is
that doorway that brings about the release of illusion; the simplicity
of Self-love. This does not mean that you just hang out in a state of
consciousness that says,

> Well, I’m really kind of a weak being, but I accept and love myself.

That’s a good beginning. But eventually you must say,

> I Am God and I love Myself. I Am That One abiding as the leaf that falls from
> the tree. I Am, indeed, That One that shudders against the cold of
> a winter storm. I Am, indeed, That One that is the warmth of the
> sunlight that comes to caress the flower. I Am the flower that receives
> the sunlight. I Am this body-mind arising and passing away. I Am the
> quality of awareness that I choose, now!

For there is only God. Only the Truth can be true. And the Truth sets
*all things free*. For if Truth is given only to mankind, but not to a
blade of grass, the blade of grass remains imprisoned. But the Truth
that sets all things free does so because *all things are the Truth*. This
is why, when you encounter *anyone*, it is, indeed, a *holy* encounter.
“Holy” means *wholeness*. In wholeness there is only One.

So, I hope you are beginning to see how simple it really is. Each moment
of relationship is “holy,” not because the mind decides to hold the
thought,

> Well, I heard this was holy. I guess I better be a nice person.

No! That’s egoic thinking, and the ego *is* the dream of separation. Who
is dreaming the dream? You are. And You Are God.

Each relationship, or each moment, is a “holy encounter” because there
is only *wholeness* showing up as that One Thing. Existence is not really
two beings coming together and having an experience. There is only the
One Thing which is the Experience Itself. Do you know that, all along,
you have never forgotten Me for a moment? That is, in any moment of *true
perception* — true, clear, immediate perception — you have been unaware
of the thought of an “I” having the experience. There is just the
experience itself. It arises innocently. It arises uncaused. There is no
judgment about it. There is just experience.

Then, in the next millisecond (snaps fingers), the next slight moment,
you create the thought,

> Oh! I am having this experience and it’s with that separate being over
> there.

You have merely elected to use the Power of God Consciousness to
identify that another body-mind is something separate from you. You Are
the Creator of the game. You Are the players in the game. You Are the
result and consequences of the game. You Are the end of the game. And
You Are That in which all games disappear as though they had never been.

This means, beloved friends, look around you. The world is not outside
of you at all. It is you. You are playing a game. That game is going to
take this very planet into a transfiguration in Light. And you will all
be transformed in the twinkling of an eye (laughing). Well, of course
you will be. You Are God making up the game. That’s all that’s going on.
That’s all that’s ever been going on. There is only That which I Am.
There is only That which *I Am*. I Am, indeed, that Perfect Impersonal I.
I Am the Creator of all things, the Sustainer of all things, the
Destroyer of all things.

There has never been a separate “I” where you are. There has only been
Me, showing up as You. You are perfect and whole, and you are innocent.
You have never failed and you have never sinned. How could these things
be, that I have spoken to you, time and time again, as Jeshua ben
Joseph, unless you are already whole? And wholeness is God. You are It.
You are the destination of all your seeking.

<!-- Track t8 -->

In the beginning, the Mind — which is Me, which is God, pretending to be
separate — plays Itself out and tries to make Itself be as separate as
It thinks It can be. But separation *never* succeeds. The first step in
the awakening process is to *hear the word*. You will hear the word (and
everyone listening to these tapes has, indeed, heard the word) when *you*
decide, as God, to have the experience of being a being awakening to the
Truth. And the word will be given unto you in a form that you choose.
Everyone listening to these tapes chose to hear the word through Me as
Jeshua ben Joseph.

That vibration, received by you, set you on your course toward perfect
remembrance and enlightenment. You are the one that created the drama of
the crucifixion. You are the One that set in motion the return of Jeshua
ben Joseph as the primary teacher in this world. Why? Because you are
That One that has decreed that it is this context in which you will give
yourself permission to edge ever closer to the Reality that the *whole
thing* is God, and You Are That.

What has been playing out, then, for these past three years of these
tapes, and even longer than that — indeed, been playing out for two
thousand years — is Your Creation. The Game of God, remembering God,
through the guise of God’s Creation.

As you come, then, to accept a savior, or a teacher, or a teaching, that
is a *stage* in the awakening process. When you decide to release your
grip of fear a little deeper, you begin, then, to have what are called
*mystical experiences*. You begin to realize that you can be aware of
someone else, not in the room with you physically. You begin to have
unique and extraordinary experiences (laughing) of communicating with
beings that don’t have bodies. And oh, my goodness, it all looks to be
so *incredible*! And yet, even that is but a stage of the journey.

And as the mind becomes more and more transparent to itself, the more it
is simply choosing to release illusion and abide in Reality, it *must
come* to the door of the Temple of Heaven. It must open that door, which
is to release any final sense of being outside the Sanctuary of Truth.
It must come to be basked in the Light that flows from the Source and
Essence of All That Is. And the separate seeker, the one who would know
God, realizes that they already know God perfectly. And that they have
indeed been God, seeking God, for the enjoyment of finding and knowing
God, again.

<!-- Track t9 -->

Yes, that is your challenge now. *Would you be willing to simply be God?*
Do you know what that requires? *Absolutely nothing.* How then, do you
show up as God? If you are thirsty, drink your water. If it is cold, put
a sweater on. If you want to make love, make love. If you want to sleep,
sleep. There is no difficulty in this. The only practice is to *be that
which You Are and You Are the Light of the world*. How many times have
you heard me say that to you?

Be that which You Are and You Are the Light of the world. You have heard
the words and said,

> Oh, now if I could only be who I Am, then I’d be the Light of the world. But
> I’m not being who I Am, so I must be the darkness of the world.

But the whole time, you are, indeed, being who You Are. You Are the
Light that lights the world. For in being whatever you’ve chosen to be
at any moment, You Are That which generates awareness of experience. And
that is all that We Are as the Mind of God: *That which generates
experience*. For experience *is* the extension of Creation.

You have not failed in separating your self from your Self. You have not
succeeded in shaking the hand off of your own arm. *The joke has been on
you, because you wanted to be “joked.” In each moment of your existence,
you have been the perfect expression of God.* Even in the moments of your
deepest so-called suffering, when you believed that everybody else had
it and you didn’t, when you perceived yourself as being light-years from
knowing God, you were the very *Power* of God creating that perception.

You are also That One who has *dared* to be *bold* enough to allow Shanti
Christo into your life — a rather radical organization. You created it
as the context for your awakening. And you are free to use that context,
that organization, to enlighten the entire planet, if you want to. You
are also free to let it crumble into an ancient echo of memory. There is
only God, and You Are That.

God extends Creation without ceasing. You will, therefore, *always*
continue to exist as The One who creates experience. And this is why
there is only one question worth asking,

> What do I truly want?

For you will experience the answer to that question. And, in fact, your
experience is the answer to the question. You can lay in bed with the
flu and ask yourself the question,

> What do I truly want? Well, this body-mind has the flu. I am
> experiencing exactly what I have wanted.

And you can embrace it and love it, and see it as perfectly innocent,
because that is the Truth of it. Having the flu is not a sign of
failure. The death of the body is not a sign of failure. It’s just what
is arising as the extension of Creation.

And so, the final and greatest Truth that can be told sounds like
complete nonsense! It is *unacceptable* to the egoic mind that wants the
power of *making* the false, separate self all-powerful and invincible,
standing against the world — in other words, the gnat shouting at the
universe. For the Mind that is awakened to the Reality of God allows all
things, trusts all things, embraces all things, transcends all things,
and sees the shimmering perfection literally showing up as all things.

You are perfectly free in every moment. Nothing can imprison God. If you
choose to *leave* a relationship, you are merely using the complete
freedom of God to generate experience. If you choose to *stay* in a
relationship, you are merely using the freedom of God to generate
experience. Neither is right. Neither is wrong. Both options are totally
free and uncaused. And *each* expresses God. It is, indeed, time to give
up perceiving some things as being more perfect than others. There is
only God. There has only been God. There will always be only God.

<!-- Track t10 -->

When a wave is cast up out of the ocean, it does not lose its wetness.
And who would say that *this* wave is better than *that* wave? And yet, I
say unto you, the mind that chooses one wave over the other *is* the Mind
of God creating Creation. For in the very moment when one wave is chosen
as having a greater value, *experience* has been had. And experience *is*
the extension of Creation. You, therefore, *are* a Creator, and you create
*without ceasing*. And you remain, today, exactly as you were when you
were created by your Self.

You remain free to create whatever you want to perceive. And you do it
from within the mind and you extend it out, you radiate it out, with
every thought you think. When an Enlightened Master shows up on the
planet, it is simply that God has given up playing the game of the
separate self through that body-mind. That’s all. An Enlightened Mind
realizes that there is only God, and that in that freedom, It is free to
show up as the body-mind in what ever way It wants, while the body-mind
lasts. Whether It shows up with saffron robes or a beggar’s worn-out
clothing makes no difference. An Enlightened Mind is an Enlightened
Mind. It might smoke a cigarette. It might drink carrot juice. It
becomes irrelevant. And the one smoking the cigarette looks at the one
drinking the carrot juice and smiles. The one drinking the carrot juice
looks at the one smoking the cigarette and smiles. And in that smile,
there is only The One, beholding The One.

You, then, are free to be at peace. You are, then, free to release all
judgment. You are, indeed, free to give yourself the exquisite
experience of being The One who allows all things. You are The One who
is free to embrace the innocence of each moment. You are The One who is
free to require sunglasses against the morning sunrise. You are The One
who is free to be *free*. And to be free is to be authentic. And to be
*authentic* is to *demonstrate* the Reality that only God exists.

For those of you that have looked upon that which I have called, in one
guise, “this My beloved brother,” and in another guise, “this My beloved
Son,” if you would go back and read *The Jeshua Letters*, not all of those
communications were from the perspective of Jeshua ben Joseph. There was
also direct communication from the Mind of God, given as a clear and
obvious *sign* unto you Things were said even in that book, that revealed
the Truth that there is only God. If you looked past it and did not see
it, it is because you still thought it would be too fearful for you to
know the Truth that sets you free. And you needed to perceive that there
was an individual, name Jon Marc, who had an experience opening to
Jeshua ben Joseph, and that you are receiving information through the
medium of a channel. And yet, I say unto you, you have received
information only from your Self: God.

Therefore, the transformation that you perceive in this one that you
would think to be a self separate from you, named Jon Marc, is merely a
body-mind in which only the Mind of God exists. That Mind operates the
body-mind to teach the Truth to you, and You are God choosing to
remember that You are God.

This is why all giving is receiving. This is why loss is not possible,
and why death does not exist. God can only dissolve into God. And in
that realization, *the final step*, the final step beyond The Way of
Knowing (there’s a clue for you), beyond even *The Way of Knowing*, is to
release resistance to Creation, Itself, and learn to show up as God in
individuated form — to have a good time: to love, to create, to extend.

Therefore, indeed, beloved friends, Our Love will be without ceasing.
Our creativity will be without ceasing. For We Are, indeed, That One
showing up *as* Creation for the *joy of the dance*. There is nothing but
this. There is nothing above or below, nothing behind or ahead. You Are
indeed That One *now*. And if you rest upon your couch with eyes closed,
Who’s doing the resting? Whose Eyes are closed? Hmm.

<!-- Track t11 -->

And so, already in this short message, I have given unto you the very
rock-bottom, most fundamental core that you can now sit with — or dance
with — if you wish. You can take it to bed with you. You can have a cup
of coffee with it. You can *strive* to *understand* it. You can analyze it,
saying,

> Well, there must be some secret message here. This must be metaphor,
> somehow.

Or you can simply give up being identified as a separate self still
struggling to know the Truth.

In *A Course in Miracles*, I said unto you,

> Holy relationship is when any two have looked within and found no lack, and
> therefore choose to join to create, to make happy.

If any two have looked within and found no lack, they have seen that
there is only God. Who cares whether this body-mind goes there or this
one goes over there? It’s all the same. Where do you feel like playing,
that’s all?

And when you see your brother or sister say, I am moving from this
location to that location, the Awakened Mind says,

> Oh, this is a part of my Self wanting to go live in Cleveland now —
> perfectly okay.

For the Enlightened Mind gives perfect freedom to all beings because it
sees that the expression of all beings is the freedom of its own Self,
of the One Mind which is God, showing up as that being who would rather
take the body-mind to Cleveland instead of living in Florida.

A totally Enlightened Mind says to the lover who awakens at three in the
morning and says,

> I now need to move to a monastery and live in perfect silence in a
> solitary cell. I will never see you again,

the Enlightened Mind receives that and smiles. For that Enlightened Mind
knows that the lover can never truly leave, because separation is
unreal. Therefore, the Enlightened Mind allows all things, trusts all
things, embraces all things and transcends all things.

There is only God. And You Are That. You Are as I Am.

The only question, left, then is: *Who do you want to play with? Who do
you want to play with* — Knowers of God or knowers of fear? They’re all
God. And yet in that play and display of Creation, you are free to
decide who you will play with, who you will dance with, who you will
create with, and what you will create. As any Mind awakens to Itself as
God, It becomes more and more interested only in being with others who
are like-Minded. It can no longer tolerate unenlightenment. Why? Because
it’s not as much fun. It’s not as loving. And God Is but Love.

Therefore, indeed, beloved friends, listen well to what has been shared
with you this hour. And if you have been noticing, quite a shift has
just occurred. The “cat is out of the bag.” For Jeshua ben Joseph has
been but a guise, a disguise, chosen of Me to present Myself to you,
because you have *required it*.

Indeed, beloved friends, be at peace always. Let us play together as
that One Mind, extending Creation without end, inviting aspects of Our
Self back to Our Self. Only Love is Real. Only Love exists. Only Love is
worthy of Love. And God wants only that which extends the *good*, the
*holy*, and the *beautiful*. Therefore, indeed, peace be with you always
(laughing). For in Truth, where could it go?

Go then in peace, beloved friends, and *know*: I Am with you always.

Amen.

