---
title: "Way of Knowing - Lesson Ten"
toc:
- Question One
- Question Two
---

Now, we begin.

And, indeed, once again, greetings unto you, beloved and holy friends. I
— we come forth to abide with you because, again, you have asked. You
have asked that That One that we have called *Abba* appear through His
created forms as I, Jeshua ben Joseph, as we, which we will call here
“the Lineage,” and also through this, my beloved brother, who serves,
yet, in the physical world as the physical conduit of that Wisdom, of
that Energy that, in Truth, the Father Is.

The Father Is what You Are. Therefore, you have asked to be guided into
the recognition that only God exists, by sending forth a prayer unto me,
and unto this Lineage, and unto your Creator, to appear unto you in a
*graded way*, that is, in a *slowly emerging way* that does not elicit an
increase of fear. And yet, in Truth, your prayer has been to desire the
awakening from the dream of the small self into the Reality that there
has been nothing *but* God and You *Are* That. Therefore, indeed, beloved
friends, as That One created and birthed from the Mind of Abba, even as
you are created and extend the Love of God in the realm of form, I come
forth as your brother and your friend. And yet, only God exists.

I will be with you always, even unto the end of all *worlds*, that is,
unto the end of all *illusions*. From that moment, Creation will extend
Itself, with perfect *clarity*, with perfect *transparency*, as God merely
extends God in a joyous, ecstatic act of becoming the forms of Creation,
merely to celebrate and praise God. For the very purpose of all created
forms of consciousness is to express praise of the Creator.

It is impossible to extend praise of the Creator without *fully* loving
oneself. Without embracing and loving the particular manifestation of
*God as you*, you cannot *fully* step into the complete expression of the
praise of the Creator. Therefore, you have heard me say unto you many
times, that the veil that keeps you from the Kingdom is the lack of
self-love. Self-love is *essential* to return to the Kingdom. For
self-love *is* the Love of the Creator. You cannot love the Creator while
rejecting the Creator’s Creation.

<!-- Track t2 -->

Indeed, then, beloved friends, know well that we who would come unto
you, indeed, we that have been coming unto you since the day, and hour,
and moment that this work began some twelve years or so ago — from the
very moment I first appeared in the mind of this, my beloved brother —
it has always been a “we” and not just an “I,” as Jeshua ben Joseph. For
there are, indeed, many of us who are linked together, in what we call
“the Lineage,” that extends far back in your history of time, creating
what you might call in your scientific terms a *resonance of energy* that
links the Mind of the Creator, through the epochs of time, through many
individual minds, even unto this moment.

It is, indeed, that Lineage that brought forth the strand of salvation
that culminated in my incarnation as Jeshua ben Joseph. The script was
written thousands of years before. The linkages of energy were created
generation unto generation unto generation unto generation, culminating
in the birth of me as a man who opened to the Reality of Abba as the
*only* Reality, through which the Creator could extend the Perfect Love of
Himself and make it *visible* to His Children abiding in the spell, or
under the spell, of illusion.

That work has never ceased. And, indeed, let it be known that the work
that is done through this, called the Shanti Christo, is an extension
of, and a collaboration with, the entirety of that Lineage, that strand
of Light, extending from the Mind of God into the forms of time with *one
purpose* — to *awaken* every aspect of the Sonship. And what can the
Sonship be but the extension of God into form, into that which appears
as an individual — that which can create, that which can enter into holy
relationship, that which can remember the fullness of Abba, *while* being
the particular individual in the field of space and time.

The purpose, then, of the Lineage has never changed. And it has, indeed,
gained in power through practice and through *adding* to its numbers.
Imagine, then, a *field of energy* that attracts minds floating by it. And
as those minds begin to resonate with the message or the word of God, as
it is being expressed through this energy field, this Lineage, they
become like unto the field of energy itself. As one of us once said, and
is still recorded in your Bible,

> Let that mind be in you which was also in the one we have chosen to call our
> Lord, the one known as Jeshua ben Joseph, or the Christ.

When Paul wrote those words, he was referring to just this process in
which you, under the spell of separation, release the spell, begin to
resonate with the Mind of the Christ, begin to take up your seat within
this expanding Lineage of Light — a direct descendant, a direct Disciple
of God.

Therefore, indeed, beloved friends, understand well the role that you
play wherever you are upon this plane. You may be living in a farmhouse
with very few neighbors. You might be living in a — what do you call
these? — the condominiums in your New York City. And yet, wherever you
are, you are about something *extraordinary*. You are about that process
whereby, from the moment the tiny mad, serious thought of separation was
dreamed ... you are about the very process through which the Creator
is *correcting* the illusion of separation.

There is nothing occurring upon your planet that is not about that. It
either expresses separation, or it extends the *correction* of separation.
There is only Heaven or the *illusion* of hell. Therefore, understand that
you are an extraordinary being. You, right where you are, are given
opportunities, moment to moment, to be the Truth of who you are, and
therefore, be the Light that lights the world. You are part of an
ancient Lineage that stretches back to before Creation began. That
strand of Light has never been broken or lost.

I, as Jeshua ben Joseph, am merely the culmination of the expression of
That in the field of space and time. And from that moment it has begun
to spread out and to seep, if you will, into more and more minds, as the
Sonship is awakened to the resonance with the Field of Energy that is
the Christ Mind. *You are in the process of ultimate transfiguration.* *You*
are part of an ancient Lineage with but one purpose: the complete
transfiguration of human consciousness into being the literal field of
*Christ Mind*, extending Creation throughout the physical dimension.

<!-- Track t3 -->

There are many extraordinary things ahead for humanity. There are many
extraordinary things ahead for *you*. And no matter how deeply you have
stepped into this journey, no matter how many transfigurative
experiences you have had, as the false self melts away, and the Reality
of Abba is birthed in the Mind made by God, there is always more. *There
is always more.* For the Father never ceases in extending Himself into
the forms of His Creation never. That which the soul *is*, even beyond the
life span of the body, the soul can never die. Nor will it ever be
*completed*. For Creation is an infinite process of extending the *good*,
the *holy*, and the *beautiful*.

Understand well, then, that you are not an ordinary person. You no
longer walk this planet asleep. You may have thoughts saying,

> I’m still not there. I still don’t quite get this Way of Knowing. Uh!
> That takes my breath away to hear there’s only God, and I am That!

*Let it* take your breath away! Enjoy the experience, knowing that *that is*
precisely the most perfect thing that can be occurring in the process of
transfiguration that you are undergoing.

You are already *in* the Hands of Abba. You are already embraced and
supported by many, many beings, abiding in a nonphysical dimension, that
are part of this expanding circle of energy that we call “the Lineage.”
Our numbers are numerous. Many of our *names*, if you will, are known to
you. Who are we, then? Well, you know me. You know that of Germain. You
know that of Mary. You know that of Abraham and Moses. There are many,
many others. You know the names of the prophets of the Torah.

The entire Lineage, then, expressed Itself down through the birthing of
what is called the Jewish Nation, which carries the great strand of the
Messiahship, culminating in the birth of me, Jeshua ben Joseph. You are
part of a *very* ancient Family.

You are becoming one and the same as that *field of shimmering, radiant
Light* that is the Purity of the Love of God shining through
consciousness into the realm of matter, if you will, into the physical
dimension.

This makes you not ordinary, but *extraordinary*. For without fanfare and
without external ritual, which often casts only a spell over the heart
and mind (the ego loves ritual), you have, indeed, gone through many
*initiations*. The day and the hour in which you first opened to me,
through this particular form of communication, through this my beloved
brother, you underwent an initiation. You gave your *consent* to your
Creator to *transfigure your beingness* so that it becomes the conduit
through which the Creator extends Himself. And God is but Love. God is
the Wisdom of the Christ Mind. God is the Sonship.

<!-- Track t4 -->

I want to, then, invite you in this hour, again in the *Way of Knowing*,
to Know, to accept wholly, that *you are in extraordinary company*. You
are not sleepwalking on the planet any longer. You have already begun to
see beyond illusions, to penetrate what your eyes used to tell you were
just the form and dance of matter and molecules, personas and egos and
bodies. You have begun to see the *invisible strand*, the *invisible dance*,
that is truly going on. You have begun to have visions and dreams. You
have begun to feel inspired. You have begun to learn *forgiveness,
healing*, and even *self-love*.

Self-love, then, is the *perfection* of all spiritual practice. Self-love
*is* the final, shining Ray of Light that illuminates the heart of the
individuated Ray of Light that you are. Self-love transfigures the mind,
the emotional body, and even the physical body, to the degree that it
strongly shines into the cells of the body.

Therefore, indeed, beloved friends, as we enter into these last days of
this *Way of Knowing*, we have come in this hour to share with you that we
do not so much come to a culmination, or an end, but to a *springboard*
for what shall be. In these three years, we have sought to help you
dismantle your illusions, to soften your heart and your mind, to be more
and more willing to be less fearful. By becoming *less fearful*, you have,
indeed, opened more and more to the guidance of the Holy Spirit.

Every choice for Love has been the result of a transfiguration that has
been going on in the alchemy of your soul. You are an extraordinary
being. You have been initiated into the strand of Light that we would
here call that of the *Lineage*, the *Sacred Family*, dedicated to the
manifestation and the fulfillment of the Atonement: *the awakening of the
Sonship as the Mind of Christ*.

All that you do, in each moment, when you dedicate yourself to Love —
again, whether you be living in a farmhouse or in a condominium in New
York — adds to the field of energy being created that will one day tip
the balance and dissolve *all* illusions from *all* minds. Your Life, then,
is a Life in service to the Sonship, *regardless of the forms* in which
you find yourself living. Your only task, then, is to decide, each day,
to *surrender* anew, *desire* the Atonement, *intend* the Atonement, *allow*
transfiguration to occur, *surrender* into the Truth:

> Abba, you are the only thing that exists. Therefore, it makes no sense
> even to say, “Not my will, but Thine,” for Yours, alone, Is. How shall
> we spend this one day?

Each experience that you go through is the reshuffling of the cards, so
to speak, as your life changes, and ebbs and flows, and miracles begin
to come. Old friends go, new friends come. Hmm? All of it is the process
whereby *your particular expression of Abba* is being transfigured into
the Power and Purity of Christ.

<!-- Track t5 -->

We are with you wherever you go. The second thing that I wish to share
with you this day is that *the power of the Lineage is available to you*.
For in the first moment you chose to listen to me speak through this, my
beloved brother, you entered through the *portal of an initiation*. And
transfiguration has continued from that moment, to the degree you’ve
been willing to allow it. In that moment, you — let us use something
from your world — you’ve been “plugged into the circuitry” of the
Lineage.

I want, then, to invite you in this hour’s taping, to recognize that it
is not just Jeshua ben Joseph who has manifested the fullness of the
Christ Mind, but there are a *host*, a Heavenly host ... that’s where
all that language came from within the Jewish Torah and even the New
Testament, taken over, by the way, by something called, “Christianity,”
which is not something I know much about, since I am, indeed, or was as
a man, a Jew. But beyond that, I am of that strand of Light, expressing
Itself through the tradition of the Jewish Family. And all of this has
been by perfect design of Abba.

It is not the only strand. There are others — yes — universal strands
that encompass the entirety of human experience. All souls have their
lineage. There are strands expressed through that which is called India.
There are strands expressed through that which is called, now, the
Tibet. There are strands or lineages that extend themselves through the
South Americas. There are strands or lineages that have extended
themselves through the North American Indian. Do you see?

All of these strands are like spokes emanating from the hub of one
wheel, reaching out to the farthest reaches of the dream of separation,
attracting and calling the Sonship back together. So that whether one is
Incan or Mayan or Anasazi or Tibetan or Indian or Jewish, or even if
you’re from New York, you are beginning to become part and parcel of One
Mind that recognizes the Reality of the *invisible* permeating the realm
of the *visible*. You are, indeed, taking up your place at the *right hand*
of God. You know the phrase in your language “the right-hand man” (or
the right-hand woman). It means *one who is in alignment, and acts only
to fulfill the will of the one in charge*. It is a beautiful phrase, and
it expresses *right-mindedness*.

Therefore, indeed, understand well, beloved friends, even if you are
eighty-five years old, sitting in your comfortable rocking chair,
believing that your life is just about to end, it can never end. The
body-mind will be put to the dust of the ground, but you have already
entered into a *fast track*. You are, indeed, a *mystic*. You are, indeed,
going through the process of *transfiguration*, and *you are adding to the
power of this Lineage*, to bring about the restoration of Heaven on
Earth, and the re-establishment of the Christ Mind throughout the
Sonship. And even when the body drops, let us just say that you will be
“assigned to a new office” — that’s all.

You — *you* listening to these words — are of *infinite importance* in the
expression of this work that is called Shanti Christo. More, then, than
an organization, and much more than a sacred piece of land to which
many, someday, will come and will be healed — that is, will enter into
the Christ Mind, just by the power of stepping into the *vortex of Purity*
that has been established there. You are already in that process. As
that Purity is established in you, you are, literally, affecting the
creation and extension and expansion of the vortex on that land that has
existed for a *very* long time. It is a portal, a doorway — there are many
names that can be used — that takes the mind and transports it into
other realms. It is transfiguring to simply abide on that land.

<!-- Track t6 -->

Therefore, understand well your great importance. Many of you have
perceived that you are merely a *receiver* through this organization. Yet,
as you receive, you are giving. And as you give, you receive. You are
part of the Lineage, the field of energy creating a vortex that has the
power to overcome illusions. Many of you are seeing this in your
personal lives. Many of you are witnessing the increasing power
expressed through the two who joined as one, in the physical realm, and
awaited the call to join with me, and have then enacted the birthing of
Shanti Christo. And I don’t think names are necessary here.

Those of you that are witnessing this increase in power through each of
them, individually and collectively, you are, literally, witnessing
exactly what I am talking about — that the *vortex of energy* is expanding
and deepening. You are, literally, witnessing the *forerunning effects* of
what is to come, when the day will arise when no one will need to say a
word. And yet, through the gathering of the Lineage, individuals who are
attracted will *heal* spontaneously and immediately drop into
enlightenment.

*All of you are part of this.* This is how extraordinary you are! And this
is the invitation that we constantly extend to you. Think not that that
which is called Shanti Christo is simply another worldly organization.
The deepest levels of transfiguration are *already occurring* through this
Lineage, through this Strand or Ray of Light. Therefore, indeed, embrace
that which you are, honor that which you are, extend that which you are.
Go and teach all nations. Let them know that I *have* come again and that
this expression, called Shanti Christo, shall become increasingly a
*primary vehicle* through which the Lineage is creating the vortex, the
portal, the initiation — call it what you will — the energy of
transfiguration that will quicken in its Enlightenment, or Atonement, of
the Sonship.

<!--Rick-->
Therefore, understand well, that what will be coming in our future days
and weeks, months and years together is a growing body of those maturing
in the way of the Christ Mind, maturing in the level of commitment,
because they will come to see the extraordinary role that they are
playing in a much bigger picture than their own personal lives. The
Family will, indeed, grow. And much is being set in place for this to
occur. The Lineage, then, never ceases working in establishing the
network of Light that allows the expression of this Light — visibly —
through this vehicle called Shanti Christo. We recognize well that, as
you live your personal lives, seemingly many, many miles from one
another, often with little third-dimensional contact, it is easy for the
mind to cast the spell upon you that not much is occurring. And yet, I
say unto you: *It will occur — with you or without you*.

The invitation, then, is to take up your rightful place by stepping into
the *full commitment* for the birthing of this *extraordinary expression*
that shall, indeed, eventually touch all corners of your planet. That
has been its purpose since long, long, long ago. The birthing, then, of
Shanti Christo is perfectly an expression of that which was just as
important — called *my* birth, and my crucifixion and resurrection. *It’s
all part of the same script.*

Something in you has attracted you to me. Something in you has attracted
you to the Lineage. Something in you *resonated* with Shanti Christo, for
those words carry the vibration of the call that I have told you, from a
time quite ancient, you would one day “hear” as you become “quickened
from the dead” (to use a Christian phrase) — the awakening of the soul,
the call back Home to the Family, to the Lineage, to the purpose of the
Atonement.

<!-- Track t7 -->

Indeed, then, beloved friends, you cannot have an ordinary day any
longer. You might as well accept the fact that you — let’s have some fun
with this here — you have come with a mission. You are a bringer of
Light, a bringer of a New Day or a New Dawn. You are that which extends
the Light and Love of God into Creation by your willingness to let the
Light *transfigure* your humanity. Your humanity is transfigured as you
*embrace* your humanity and see it *all* as *sacred*.

For, you see, the spell of illusion is to believe that life as a
body-mind is a *mistake*, that it is a fearful world, that one is limited
and small, that the only thing you can do is put all your energy into
trying to survive, that all you can do is block your feelings and
pretend they’re not there in an attempt to deny the *power* of the Christ
that you are ... the *power* to bring the miracle of Love and
remembrance and Atonement to each moment.

You are, indeed, unlimited in *all ways, forever*. And the mind that
serves the Holy Spirit — which *is* the Christ Mind, which *is* the Mind of
Abba, which *is* the Self of your very soul; they’re all the same — the
mind that serves the Holy Spirit is, indeed, *unlimited forever*, and is
part of an extraordinary Family, called the Lineage, that can, indeed,
be traced through the Jewish nation, if you will, the Jewish families,
and can be traced even back *before* that lineage, that family, that
nation was birthed. It shapes itself back through Egypt, back through
Persia. It has some roots in ancient India. And it, indeed, has roots
beyond this physical Earth.

You, therefore, are not alone. And your role should never be minimized
by you. And so, with that, please understand, that the culmination of
*The Year of Knowing* has been the desire and attempt to invite you more
and more and more deeply — and yes, we know that the mind hits its
points of fear and must plateau out for a week or a year or ten
lifetimes, before it’s willing to step further. And yet, you are free,
even in the midst of your deepest fears, to say, “Yes!” to
transfiguration. For darkness holds no power over Light. And it is
often, in fact, it is *always* when you are at the point of your greatest
sense of darkness, or your greatest feeling that the Light just can’t
quite get into you, that you couldn’t possibly ever be enlightened — it
is at that moment that you need only *invite the Light*. And the Light
begins to transform the darkness. It is when you are at your edge of
darkness that the dawn is but a breath away.

As you transfigure *your* humanity, you are transfiguring the energy field
of *humankind*, pure and simple. You are incarnating Christ into the
world. You are resurrecting and awakening the “dead” into Life Eternal.

Now as we continue, then, there will, at times, be guidance from this
that I am calling The Lineage. Much is going to be set in place. The
quickening is going to step up a notch. And the invitation will go out
to many, many more. Take up, then, your *rightful* place and begin to give
up hiding your Light under a bushel. If there is anyone you know who
does not yet know of your involvement in Shanti Christo, it is time to
empower yourself to move beyond fear by letting them know. It is,
indeed, time to start standing up to be counted as one who is committed
to the transfiguration of human consciousness, through the Lineage of
the Christ Mind, pure and simple.

<!-- Track t8 -->

And so, you are *extraordinarily important*. You *must* begin to discipline
the mind to not perceive yourself as a small part, not to perceive
yourself as separate from one another — to begin to take action to
create the lines of communication, even in the third-dimensional realm.
It is time for you, as individuals, to step forward in the birthing of
Shanti Christo, instead of waiting and depending upon its founders or
upon the handful that seem to have gone a little further ahead. You are
That One you, the listener of these words. And if you will but step
forward, the whole *power of the Lineage* will support you.

So, the invitation is, indeed, bold. And the “stakes,” so to speak, have
always been high. It is a great dream to transform the dream of
separation into the Dream of Perfect Remembrance. **You are not small.* And
you are not alone.*

Many of you are beginning to be more deeply aware that you, too, hear
me. Let that process continue and deepen. Become an *equal conduit* which
extends the Atonement, through the Christ Mind, through that which is
called Shanti Christo, through you. This, my beloved brother, was merely
selected a long time ago to be the primary *initiator* of this process in
space and time. That of what you might call here, the soul mate, was
also part of that agreement; and yet that was only the first step. They,
indeed, will continue — with you or without you. And yet, for this work
to reach its fulfillment in the quickest possible time, requires the
invitation of this Lineage to you, a part of this Lineage: Where can you
step forward with greater boldness? Where can you find your edge of fear
and call in the support of Light and move through it? Where can you drop
the pebble into the pond that radiates the vibration of this Lineage
through you out into the world? For the world holds no power over you.

I hope, in this simple sharing to this point, that your mind has been a
little shaken, and you have been brought to a deeper stillness, that
your mind has been brought back to the Reality of what attracted you to
this vibration in the first place. For in that moment, your heart *was*
thrown open, through the portal of initiation. Your *soul* is what has
attracted you back to me, for your soul has always known the Truth, and
it has simply answered the call.

Yet, it takes *vigilance* and *discipline* to always *remember* each day not
to fall asleep again. For the temptation of the world is just that: to
begin to think that all of those walking asleep in the world have
greater knowledge than you. And since so many of them are asleep, maybe
being asleep is the way to be. *It is not!* For all those sleeping will be
transfigured in the twinkling of an eye. The sleeping call out in their
slumber for *someone* to stir them from their sleep by *modeling* and
*expressing* and *communicating* the *quickening vibration of Light* which is
the presence of God.

Indeed, you have chosen to come into this dimension as part of a very
grand work that is going on *multi-dimensionally*. You are, indeed, part
of a rather large Family.

In the coming months and years, you will hear from me again. Many of you
will continue to deepen your ability to communicate with me directly.
Honor and love, therefore, one another. *Honor and love, therefore, one
another.* Recognize that you’ve come together, not to live ordinary
lives, but to play out the greatest drama ever enacted upon the human
plane. That is your role, your function, your purpose, and your Life.

<!-- Track t9 -->

Understand well, then, that in the coming months, you will begin to see
and witness even greater miracles and manifestations. Those of you that
have been watching closely have already seen many. They will, indeed,
continue to be enhanced, to be quickened. The miracles will seem bigger
to some. But those of you that have been watching will know that there
is no order of difficulty in miracles, and one is not greater than
another. The vortex of energy is being set. Certain purifications have
been occurring. And it’s time for a, what you might call here, a major
*pop* into another circle of energy.

You will also hear from various, what you call, members, if you will, of
this Lineage that have been actively working behind the scenes, but have
not stepped forward to speak. We mentioned this once before. Some of you
have forgotten it. And yet, the time comes *very quickly*. You will,
indeed, be hearing from That One which I have called my Mother, that you
know as Mary. You will, indeed, be hearing from That One that you would
know as Moses. And there will be some others, as well.

You will be hearing from what seems to be very ordinary embodied human
beings, all of whom will be attracted to join with this organization
because they *resonate* with the vibration that It is establishing on the
planet. *Listen well* to all of them. Place no special value on
communication from me or from the nonphysical realm. But listen for the
strand of Truth that speaks the Reality you *know* within your heart.

It has, indeed, been a great honor to be the one selected of my Father
to undergo the *laser beam purification*, called the crucifixion and
resurrection, as part of a much larger picture. It has been a great
honor to be the One through whom you have opened your heart to the Love
of God. It has been an honor to serve as a Savior and Messiah. But in
Truth, that is not the end. For *the end can come only when perfect
equality as Christ is established in all hearts and minds*. Join with me,
then, in this great work. *Join with me* — do not shy away from that which
your heart would call you unto. Rather, *dive deeper*!

I will never leave you, and will never take my hand from this work until
all is, indeed, completed. You will, indeed, be hearing from me in the
future — many times. Although the vehicle through which that comes might
be surprising at times.

Be you, therefore, at peace, beloved friends — beloved brothers ...
and *sisters* ... who must, indeed, by the way — sisters — begin to
unite more *powerfully* in the expression of the Christ Mind through the
feminine form. Enough said about that for now.

I, indeed, love you always. And I participate with all minds called to
awaken. I am but your brother and your friend, ever dedicated to
revealing that which my Father would reveal to you through me — in just
the right way, at just the right time. You are as I am. And together we
transfigure humanity. In this way, then, I was a *prototype* for what is
to come, an expression in space and time of what all are destined to be.
And yet, that destiny is but the *remembrance* of what they have always
been, beyond the veil of illusions.

Peace is with you always. Peace is with you always. Hear the call.
Accept the invitation. And let us continue in the greatest story ever
told!

Amen.

---

## Question One

[*Question One*](/wom/questions/k10q1/): There is a book out now, and it
is called *The Bible Codes*. And there’s been discovered a secret code
in the Torah, which indicates a lot of events that have occurred now, in
this time frame. Would you care to elaborate on the validity of that?
{: .omit}

---

## Question Two

[*Question Two*](/wom/questions/k10q2/): Can you explain more about the
free will of children, because it often appears that they are at the
mercy of their parents’ choices?
{: .omit}

