---
title: "Way of Knowing - Lesson Eleven"
---

Now, we begin.

And once again, greetings unto you, beloved and holy friends. Again, I
come forth to abide with you because I love you. Always, then, and
forever we are joined in the place of Love. Always and forever we are
joined in the place of Reality. Always and forever I am but your brother
and your friend. You have many brothers, and many sisters, in what you
call the disembodied state, who know you and who love you and who do not
come closer to you than you are willing to allow. And that allowance is
always the result of your decision to claim your *worthiness* to have
communication that can enlighten you.

You are then, indeed, entirely sovereign at all times. You, and you
alone, create the thoughts, the beliefs, the perceptions, that you wish
to experience. These then crystallize into the forms of your experience,
even into the physical dimension. Remember then, in this conclusion of
this year’s *Way of Knowing*, that there is never a time that you see
anything that exists outside of you. Everything you see originates
within you, since the only thing you *can* see is the way in which *you*
choose to cloak or drape the mysterious energy of Creation.

Every neutral event, every moment of arising, is merely energy given to
you on a silver platter, if you will — given to you freely that you, as
consciousness, might choose to have the opportunity *to create experience*
by *cloaking that energy*, that has been presented to you, with the
perceptions and beliefs that you have *chosen* for yourself. You have
heard me say unto you many times that only Love is Real. You have heard
me say unto you many times that it is not necessary to seek for Love,
but it is necessary to seek for what is false.

In these past three years, you have been given many, many tools and much
deep and profound understanding to assist you into the simple decision
of complete responsibility for every moment of your experience. For in
the end, I can give you only this. I cannot *relieve* you of what you may
perceive yet to be the *burden* of the fact that you *are constantly
creating* — that you are, indeed, a Creator.

Likewise, I would not wish to unburden you from the incredible,
shimmering awareness and responsibility — the freedom, the fun of
knowing that as a *sovereign master* of your domain, you are free to
create whatever your heart most truly desires.

The secret then, as I have shared with you many times, is to *practice
seeking first the Kingdom*. Never let a day go by in which you fail to
ponder the great mystery of God’s Presence. Never let a morning go by
that you fail to begin your day, except in this way: surrender all
thought of what you know and have believed. Rest in gratitude to the One
Who has birthed you. Ask only to be revealed for you greater Truth,
greater wisdom, greater capacity to know and extend perfect Love,
perfect Trust and perfect Peace.

<!-- Track t2 -->

In *The Way of Knowing* we come to the great culmination that you are,
indeed, as I Am. That in each moment of your soul’s journey, you have,
literally, created the worlds of your experience — just as I did when I
walked upon your plane, just as I continue to do now. How, then, has it
occurred that this form of communication could take place? It is not so
much that I cleverly set up a labyrinth of doorways to draw this, my
beloved brother, into a place in which I could connect with him. But
rather, I rested in my desire to extend the Atonement.

By creating that desire, I began to create a vibrational field emanating
from my mind out through Creation. That vibration, alone, is not enough.
But where it resonated with the deepest (and, at that time, fairly well
hidden) desire of this, my beloved brother, to know the Christ Mind, to
find a way to serve, to indeed heal and awaken from any last traces of
illusion — it is like two wires dancing about, their dance caused by the
movement of energy through them, until their energy touches, joining the
tips of the wires together. That is when the flow began. That is when I
could appear to him in his living room.

The same process must have occurred between my mind and yours, or you
would not be listening to this tape. You would have never heard of
Shanti Christo. And you would not have heard of me. Recognize, then,
*your own power*. For you have attracted me unto yourself, as I have
attracted you to me. And in each moment of all of your relationships,
whether they be with people, places or things, learn to pause long
enough (which only takes a few seconds) and say within yourself,

> I am in the moment of this relationship because I have called this to
> myself. There is, then, something within me which vibrates or resonates
> perfectly with the “other.”

Again, whether that be person, place, or thing.

True change, then, can occur, not when you recognize that you don’t like
the relationship you’re in, of person, place or thing, and therefore
take steps to get yourself out of it — but rather, when you recognize
that the relationship and what is occurring within it must be the result
of something within your own consciousness. And, therefore, what is
unlikable in that moment of relationship is merely the flowering of a
*seed potential*, or vibration, that you have been holding in the depth of
your own being. It is, then, a simple thing to seek first the Kingdom,
to rest in that simple knowingness, and to gently inquire of the Holy
Spirit to teach you, to reveal to you, what you have held as a true
belief that is, indeed, false. As you then see why you have been holding
that belief, and how it has manifested the world of your experience, you
then are quite free to choose anew.

It is just at this point where so often the mind becomes fearful,

> But at least I know this. I do not know what is unknown.

But I say unto you, there is nothing *un*known. There is *nothing* unknown
to you. For there *is* nothing until *you* decide to *choose* for it. This is
why *desire* is the first key to the Kingdom. Freedom can only come to the
mind that truly assumes complete responsibility for the creation of its
experience. So that in any moment, it recognizes that the thoughts, the
perceptions, and the feelings coursing through the emotional body are
arising within the sovereign domain of that soul’s being. They are
*uncaused* save, again, for the seed thoughts or perceptions that that
mind, or that soul, has chosen to value for itself.

Life, then, offers you your way out. When things don’t seem to be
working and your “peace” is missing, this is actually a sign to you that
there must be some belief or perception that you are clinging to which
does not work. You are free, then, to seek it out, to inquire, and then
to change it.

<!-- Track t3 -->

I have often recommended to you that you cannot transcend what you first
fail to embrace. Therefore, look well upon your creations — and bless
them. If it is the fact that your car has just broken down along the
freeway, and the wheels have fallen off, and the motor’s stopped, and
the doors have crumbled to dust — bless it. For that context of
experience will take you into your tomorrows.

There is no moment, then, and this is the point that we’re reaching,
*there is no moment*, in which you have *failed*. As a sovereign master,
indeed, the literal embodiment of the Mind of God, you have used your
freedom to create experience. Embrace it. Rest in gratitude for it. Own
it as completely yours. And then simply ask,

> Do I wish to continue it, or would I like to start a new adventure?

You will be creating new adventures eternally. For there is no moment
that Creation ends. And *mind*, or *soul*, is the *vortex*, the *vehicle*
through which Creation extends Itself from the field of infinite
possibility into the realization of manifold particularities.

Beloved friends, you are, indeed, as I Am. I’m rather enjoying my
domain. I am unlimited by space and time, and have no longer any need,
whatsoever, for the unique forms of experience that can come through the
crystallization of what you call the body — what some of you still
mistakenly call *yourself*.

You, then, are very much at play in the Kingdom, like a child in a
sandbox. And each event that arises for you need not be judged. I have
shared with you many times that it is the egoic mind that compares and
contrasts. Therefore, never compare or contrast your experience with
another person’s. Yours is unique. And though the world would say,
perhaps, that your experience isn’t as valuable because you are only
worth twenty thousand dollars and somebody else is worth four hundred
million, therefore they have manifested more powerfully — that is simply
not true. For manifestation is simply the expression that reveals where
the mind has been focusing.

The *real* power is the very mystery that *anything* can be manifested *at
all*. And you are free to constantly choose anew. Cultivate, then, a very
childlike attitude toward all of your experience. Learn to ponder it, to
wonder about it, to look upon it like a father does to a child, like
your Father does to you.

> Behold, I have created all things and it is good!

In your Bible, in the creation story that is told there, it is said that
God said something like that. For God looked upon all that He had
created and said,

> Behold, it is very good!

You are the father of your creations. You are the father of your
thoughts, your attitudes, and your choices. Look upon all of these
things and say,

> Behold, it is very good.

For goodness begets goodness. Judgment begets judgment. For nothing can
produce except that which is like itself. An acorn cannot produce a
fish. A man and a woman cannot produce an acorn. The thoughts you hold
about yourself will reproduce themselves. When you look upon all things
as good, goodness will be begotten from that decision.

Each time, then, that you have chosen to hold a negative thought about
yourself, or about anyone, you have only insured the kind of
inconsistency in your mind that interrupts the power of your ability to
create, more and more, as a living embodied master. This can only be
because you have held deep within the mind some belief that says,

> No matter what I do, it won’t work out.

There is some *conflicted* belief. A belief in goodness and a belief in
evil create a conflict that must entrap the soul.

Therefore, indeed, beloved friends, if you are to complete this year of
*The Way of Knowing*, then know this — as you think, so shall you be. And
how you think, how you choose to perceive and believe, will determine
what you see in the world. And what you believe you see will determine
how you act. It will determine the friends you keep, the kind of career
you create, where you live, and how you feel.

In other words, if you hold the thought that you cannot trust the
Universe to support you, you will look out and see a world that seems,
self-evidently, to reveal to you that such a thought is true. You will
then create behaviors to insulate yourself and never let the world know
what you want. And then, of course, you will wonder why life seems to go
on as it always has.

Learn, then, always to inquire, not out into the world but into yourself
—

> If I am having this experience, what must I have believed to be true
> about myself and about the world?

The truth will come, through prayer and through honesty. And when you
discover it, you will know it. And then use the sovereign power of free
choice given unto you, which is, indeed, the Truth of the Kingdom, to
choose otherwise.

<!-- Track t4 -->

A master cannot *blame*. And a master can never perceive him or herself as
having been victimized. And yet, this mastery doesn’t come through
special spiritual power. It comes only through a simple and free choice.
Remember, I said earlier that you are constantly creating your
experience. You are free in this moment and in every moment to simply
say,

> I believe I’ll adopt the perspective of a master — no sense in blame, no
> sense in feeling like a victim. What I’m experiencing is wholly mine. I must,
> therefore, have wanted it.

Always be very careful, then, that you do not judge what is occurring.
For that is the fault that people fall into.

> Why did I call this to myself? This is a horrible experience?
> 
> Why, oh why did I want this?

All of that is judgment and not gratitude. I learned at the crucifixion
that I could feel and experience gratitude for my persecutors. I could
feel gratitude for the whole context of experience that *I had chosen to
call to myself* in order to discover that there are *no* circumstances
powerful enough to prevent me from choosing for Love.

And in the end, can there be a more powerful experience to call to
yourself than that? (laughing) Not the crucifixion, with nails in your
wrists but, rather, the power to see that in every moment, of birth and
of death, of comings and goings, that nothing prevents you from the deep
peace and joy of choosing to Love. For Love is not conditioned by the
conditions of the world. How can it be, when the world does not exist?
Only you exist, as a field of awareness that chooses to create
perception and belief.

Beloved friends, the world *is* unreal. In the end, the body is unreal, at
least as you perceive it to be, for the body cannot limit you in any
way. You already extend so far beyond it that it seems unimaginable and
completely unbelievable. You are, indeed, the Thought of Love in form.
But that form is not the body. It is merely the Thought or the Reality
which is Christ. Christ is the essence of your higher Self. Christ is
the Truth of Who you Are. And the role of the body, then, can only be to
bless, to comfort, and to extend Love.

Two lovers find the fulfillment of their lovemaking, in your physical
plane, when each delights only in blessing, comforting, and extending
Love. Each learns, yes, to receive that desire from the other, as an act
of Love toward that one.

> Oh, let me massage your shoulders.
> 
> Okay!

For relationship *is* the means of your salvation. And holy relationship
is always a simple, joyful dance of two who recognize, truly, that only
Love is Real and they want nothing else.

<!-- Track t5 -->

You are, indeed, a sovereign master of your domain. You cannot fail at
any moment. And any form of experience that is unfolding for you is
merely the fruit of the seeds of thought that you have planted within
your mind. Look at the outcome in order to discover the thought. And
then merely ask, by first saying,

> What a good girl am I (or a good boy am I). That was a rich experience. Hmm,
> I wonder what I might most want to experience now?

For rest assured you *will* experience it.

You can, then, either claim dominion over your life, and become the
conscious director of your life experience, or you can abdicate it to
someone else — such as your government, your employer, or what have you.
You are totally free to do that if you remember to claim it as a
sovereign act.

> I am commuting two hours on this freeway, to a job that I don’t like,
> and commuting home for two hours every day. Because of the sovereignty
> of my total mastery, I choose to do so.

For that is the only reason you can find yourself in any place at any
time.

As a sovereign master, you are free to follow me. You are free to *choose
only* your loving thoughts. You are free to *remember only* your loving
thoughts. You are free to embrace whatever comes up that may be unlike
Love and simply accept that it must be an old seed getting cooked, and
that you are free to embrace *it* with Love. This is why there can be no
*feeling* that must be judged or avoided. Feelings of despair, or feelings
of sadness — these things are merely something left over from a past
thought. And in the act of embracing them, you have already decided with
Love. And Love, alone, heals all things.

And so, just think of this. As a sovereign master you chose, without
lifting a finger, to call into the domain of your experience a form of
communication with an ancient friend — Jeshua ben Joseph. Out of the
field of your sovereign domain as a living master, you have chosen that
called Shanti Christo into your domain. There *must* be a reason for it.
There must be a desire for it. And is that not the desire to discover,
ever more deeply, if there is anything possibly obstructing you from
experiencing greater joy, greater peace, greater wisdom, and greater
Christed Consciousness?

For, indeed, beloved friends, a master never ceases in growing him or
herself. A master is never finished. Do not think that you can come to
the end of some form of experience, perhaps even the death of the
body-mind, and suddenly be at the finish line. For there is no such
thing as a finish line. There are only realms that you can grow into in
which Creation is indeed far more blissful than it is in the physical
domain. But Creation continues. Your responsibility and your sovereignty
and your dominion continue.

For the further you go into God, the greater the responsibility, for you
are dealing with greater power. Thus the need for vigilance and
discipline does not go away, it *increases*, but a master *welcomes* it. For
through it even greater creations can flow through their holy mind. Did
you know that it is possible to birth an entire, what you might call, a
solar system with a single thought?

Now, if you’ve ever baked a very good chocolate cake, you know something
of what it means to create. If you’ve ever written a poem, if you’ve
ever birthed a child, if you’ve ever planted a seed and watched it grow,
then you know and understand the great satisfaction of creating. Imagine
merely holding a thought in the mind and then experiencing the actual
birthing of an entire solar system. It is, indeed, a great delight!

Imagine birthing something like Shanti Christo by merely emanating a
vibration that is resonant with the desire of this, my beloved brother’s
mind, for instance, and that of the “twin.” Imagine birthing that which
is called *A Course in Miracles* merely by holding the thought of it in
its completed form, and then letting that wave emanate and join with
another mind, who happens to be in the physical domain and does all the
work.

That is the power that is available to you. And as you choose to embrace
yourself as a master, as you choose to look upon each and every moment
of your experience as wholly self-created, as that which is waiting for
*your* blessing, as you come to see that there is power and freedom in
choosing to bless with gratitude *all* of your creation and then to say,

> This has been so fantastic. It might be fun to have something even
> greater happen now! It was great being with that lover, but what the
> heck, they’ve just recently died, so I think I’ll open up to something
> even greater.

It is that kind of an attitude that expands the Kingdom, the domain of
your consciousness, until the day arises when the physical universe can
no longer contain you. And you will simply outshine the body itself.

This has occurred, by the way. Some minds have outshined the body before
the body was ready to die. They merely dissolved in Light and that was
the end of it. It is not necessary, however, to do so. For the
experience of what is called “death” in your world is *just another
experience*. If you bring your awareness to it, you will discover in the
day of what you call death that it’s actually rather delightful. As your
attention withdraws from the body, you become the witness of the gasping
of the lungs, the building up of the fluid, and you watch it with
disinterest. For you are already vibrating in the energy of bliss, which
is the essence of your soul. Death, then, is quite simply, nothing.

<!-- Track t6 -->

Beloved friends, in the culmination, then, of this year of *The Way of
Knowing*, I ask you as your equal, and as your brother, and as your
friend eternally, to claim in this hour *complete sovereign mastery* over
your domain. Discover what has not yet been embraced and owned. For
those things which are dissociated, in your psychological language, that
which has not been *embraced* by you, *imprisons* you. There is the doorway
to perfect freedom. There the doorway into what looks like the unknown,
except that there is no such thing as the unknown. For nothing exists
until you call it to yourself.

In this year, then, of *The Way of Knowing*, let its culmination be that
as this tape ends and you click off your button, let it be the *last act
you ever do* with a mind that says,

> I’m still trying to get there. I’m still a victim of the world I see.

When you click it off, let those attitudes be clicked off entirely. It
requires only the willingness to say in each moment,

> This must be what I have called to myself. Do I wish to continue it, or would
> I choose something else?

The world, then, you have made is only an illusion. Nothing which has
been constructed must remain *unless you desire it*. If you continue the
structures of your life — career, relationship, whatever it is —
recognize that you are doing so out of the sheer delight of wanting the
experience. And if you prefer, you can let it crumble and start anew.
You are free to clear out your bank accounts, give away all of your
material possessions, sign over your house to somebody else, give your
car keys to somebody and simply start walking down the road with nothing
but the clothing on your back. You are totally free to do that. And out
of the power of your desire, you will attract situations that provide a
place to sleep, food to eat, new experiences, and new friends.

At no time can *anyone* be a victim. And yet at any time, consciousness is
free to perceive itself as *having been* victimized. That is merely the
choice to create a form of experience. We might share with you that
victimization is one of the “booby prizes” chosen pervasively by
humanity: the victim game. Many are quite committed to seeing how well
they can play it out. One could say that the victimization game has
affected virtually every mind in the human domain.

You are not a victim. If, indeed, tomorrow, your doctor tells you,

> You have cancer and you have fifteen days left to live. I wish you would have
> come in earlier. I could have given you, possibly, forty-five days.

Simply say to yourself,

Oh, what a rich experience this might be. I have fifteen days to go into
the death of the body with total consciousness, complete forgiveness,
and perfect peace. Wow, what an amazing opportunity I have called to
myself!

For cancer is not a failure. Indeed, we would behold, in much of your
so-called New Age movement, that there is much judgment — *much judgment*
— much abhorrence of anything that doesn’t look like manifesting wealth,
having the perfectly curved hips, and a multitude of loving friends.
That is a naive attitude.

But the soul’s sovereignty is rich beyond measure. *Wherever you are as
you listen to these words, you are living sovereign mastery, now.* And
you are free to create anew any time you wish. But understand that the
experience you are having, when embraced and loved and accepted totally
as being uncaused by anything but your own awareness, when you can
*delight in that*, you are free — you are free! And you have already risen
above and gone far beyond the most successful beings that *humanity* would
say are successful.

Do not, then, be succumbed to the shimmering lights of the world, the
great tinsel on the tree. For all that matters is this:

> Am I at peace? Do I bring Love to each moment? Do I accept (laughing)
> with great humor, that all that I have experienced has been by my own
> design, an interesting game, and perhaps a joke, played upon myself?

To look upon the world and say,

> There is nothing I need here. But I choose to be here to see who I can
> love, how I can love, and what enjoyment I might create.

<!-- Track t7 -->

Peace, then, is always the goal of the spiritual journey — that Peace
that passes all understanding. For if you have listened well to what I
have shared with you in this hour, ninety-five percent of it seems like
mere gibberish to the world:

> It cannot be that way!

It turns the world upside down, rips it inside out and makes it
*valueless*. But it makes *you* valuable. It places you at the right hand of
God. This is what you were birthed for. This is where you remain. For
Love waits on your welcome.

And so I greet you, indeed, beloved friends, as my equal. I greet you as
sovereign masters, co-creators, perfect divine expressions of
creativity, ceaselessly creating all that you would choose to
experience. I never lament the pain that you experience. I never feel
sorry for your suffering. I merely wait, in Love, for the Truth of your
being, and offer assistance to you, when you are willing to grow, to
heal, to forgive, to expand, and to enlighten your being.

Great freedom can come when, in the midst of something that you feel to
be great suffering, you choose to laugh and say,

> Look at this one! What an amazing script I have written here. I ought to win
> — what is that called in your world? — the Oscar-winning play here. Who could
> have done this one better than this?

And rest assured, you are speaking to one who had some experience at
writing rather interesting scripts of suffering.

Beloved friends, look *lovingly* upon the world you have created. Look
with perfect forgiveness *now* upon the simplicity of your physical
domain. For the life of the body-mind arises and passes away in a few
cosmic seconds. You can delight in sensory experience, indeed, in the
“cruel beauty of time,” without ever believing that it should be
different than it is. It is merely shadow. It is merely a disguise that
you have laid upon a mysterious energy. For you, indeed, have birthed
the physical domain, itself. You might as well *relax and enjoy it*.

In each and every one of your days, then, live and behave as a master
lives and behaves. When first you realize that you are awake in the
physical domain in the morning, choose Love. Choose to relax the
body-mind into a state of deep prayer and give thanks to your Creator.
Hold in the mind’s eye all of your domain — your relationships, your
careers, your physical objects and say,

> Behold [laughing], it’s been a gas!

Then simply ask,

> I wonder if there is anything I might like to move toward changing in
> order to experience greater joy, deeper peace, more certain wisdom, and
> more loving relationship?

If something comes into your mind, do not blame it, do not judge it, but
simply begin to *wonder* about how you might like to see it changed. Hold
that as a desire in the depth of your consciousness. And if its energy
builds during the course of the day, simply begin to say it, write it
out, get a picture of it, hold the desire in your heart. And you will,
indeed, bring it to pass. For you see, manifestation occurs
*instantaneously* in the field of a mind that is no longer conflicted with
opposite kinds of thoughts.

So if anything seems to be manifesting slowly for you, first of all it
simply may be that that’s part of your script. That’s the journey you
are taking. A walk from one village to the next allows a much richer
experience than taking a taxi. It may also be because you have some
conflicted belief in your mind, and therefore in the cells of your body,
that is not in alignment with what you would wish to desire. For
instance, often the human mind will say,

> I desire a perfect loving relationship.

But deep in the quiet of the mind is the thought,

> Except I don’t deserve it. I’m unlovable.

When that has been repressed or dissociated, it will run you and will
conflict, or take away from you, the power to create or to attract the
desire. Therefore, when you desire, look well and watch with subtle
vigilance, what *contrary thoughts* seem to also come up in the mind. Then
follow those contrary thoughts so that they become crystal clear. You
may even discover where they began. Feel whatever feelings may be
associated with them, yes, and then return to what you desire until you
feel that all of your being is in perfect alignment with it. For then
you begin to create yourself as a resonating station to which those
things will be called that help align your external world in the
physical domain to *express* the desire you’ve created.

One who, for instance, creates a life-style of financial independence
after twenty or thirty years, from one perspective has accomplished a
great deal but, from another, has taken a very long, slow way to get
there. Everyone is free to create what they desire. Everyone is free to
do so because they are doing it, now. Look well, then, to the feeling
and the thought coursing through you. Look well to the physical
environment in which you find yourself. Look well to the objects that
you have surrounded yourself with and simply say,

> All of these things demonstrate to me what I have chosen to desire. And it is
> very good!

That statement of Love and acceptance is the doorway to expansion of
your mastery. For in Truth, as the master awakens to what they have been
doing all along, the most natural thing in the world is to create
greater joy.

<!-- Track t8 -->

And the highest level of joy is to manifest service to the Atonement.
That is why, perhaps one gives up a job in a corporation to go and start
to make videos that can help get a good message out to the world. That
is why someone ceases to work in a doctor’s office and becomes a channel
for Jeshua. That is why someone drops what they are doing in a corporate
career and becomes a minister — because within them the soul has said,

> Okay, enough of that experience. I want greater joy. And the pathway to
> greater joy is to join with like minds that are creating and extending contexts
> in which other minds can awaken.

That is why many of you have been attracted to Shanti Christo, to join
with, to use your golden coins, to use your voice, to use your lips, to
use your hands, to use your feet, to help participate in the creation of
contexts in which the Atonement can occur.

Service, then, is the natural outflow of a heart filled with the
gratitude of Grace. Masters are never found struggling to survive in
something they don’t like. They would frankly rather sit on a street
corner, asking passers-by for a nickel or two to get a cup of coffee.
Meanwhile they’re too busy smiling and waving and blessing everyone that
walks by because they would rather love than look good in the world. A
master has no choice but to serve — but to serve not from *duty*, but from
*joy*. For the greatest joy can be to extend the *good*, the *holy*, and the
*beautiful*.

Therefore, when you choose active participation in serving the
Atonement, you will discover that you will, indeed, be well supported.
And all of the events that occur are merely opportunities to deepen your
capacity for wisdom, for peace, and for Love — to create within yourself
a conduit for the extension of greater Love into the world — not because
you *must*, but because you’ve chosen to serve. And you’ve *chosen* to serve
because it is the greatest source of joy. If, then, you resist service,
it must mean that there is some seed thought within you that is in
conflict with the desire to serve, and that is all.

<!-- Track t9 -->

And so, indeed, beloved friends, we come, then, very gently, and by way
of summation, to the culmination of this year of *The Way of Knowing*. The
Truth is, you’ve been a master all along. You cannot help but be one,
for you are constantly creating your experience. You are free now to
create *differently*. How to do that? Do not get up out of your chair and
rush about. But why not decide, right now, to experience happiness, to
experience peace, and to experience the knowledge that you *are* a master.

How do you do that? By *choosing* to. Simply decide right now for the next
thirty seconds to be happy. And then choose another thirty seconds to be
at peace, and then another thirty seconds to simply and quietly look
around you and say,

> Behold, I am, indeed, the master of my domain. And all of it has been
> very, very good.

Thank the chair that you are sitting in for coming into your domain.
Thank the vase of flowers on your table. Thank the electricity bill that
comes in the mail. Thank *all* things as blessings that come to you.

For to fail to do this contracts your power to continue to expand and to
create what you enjoy. To *believe* that you are in lack at any time is to
*create* lack in your tomorrows. Therefore, choose now to *feel* perfect
abundance and joy. And then *behave* as one who *knows* they live in
abundance.

I love you. You love me. This communication will never cease. And why?
Because I have no intention of withdrawing myself from extending the
Christ Mind to anyone who will receive it.

We are, indeed, joined in the place of Perfect Love. Creation is merely
a harmless game, done for the simple enjoyment of creating. Become, then
again, as a little child, for every master *is* a little child, delighting
in the great mystery and the seeming surprises of discovering the power
that can move through them.

> Always move toward what you enjoy. Always follow your heart.

Do not follow the reactive ego that says,

> Oh, no. I don’t want to go there because that feels uncomfortable.

Nothing is uncomfortable. It’s just another opportunity to have an
experience to broaden your capacity to love. How can I say that? Try the
crucifixion. It was not uncomfortable, once I embraced it. This is why,
by the way, and some of you have done this, why human beings can walk on
fire and not burn their feet. Why? Because they choose to do so and have
a good experience. And everything in them is unconflicted for at least
the minute or so it takes to do the firewalk. That gives them a taste of
what is possible *always*.

Use, then, your time to cultivate the garden of a Healed Mind. Never
believe that you do not hold the power to change the energy you feel in
your emotional body, to change the thoughts held within the mind. You
are free to birth whatever you so desire. And nothing can serve as a
limit to *you*.

Peace, then, be with you this day! Peace, then, be with you always.

We are, indeed, looking forward to your coming year in which there will
be others to communicate with you, as well, as we will seek to
*magnetize*, to *direct*, to *suggest* that other minds — with bodies and
without — come to bring you messages of Truth and of wisdom and of
skills that can help you perfect your mastery in the world.

You are free. You are Home. You are, as I am.

Peace, then, be unto you always, precious, precious friends.

Amen.

