---
title: "Love Heals All Things - Question One"
contents: "early"
---

Question 1: Well, this is a question that’s bothered me ever since I read this
statement in the Course, and every time the expression consciousness was used
tonight, I still had that same questioning. The statement in the Course that
concerns me says “consciousness is an ego function”. And yet it seems to me
that we talk all the time about a God Consciousness and a Christ Consciousness,
and so if we are talking about a God Consciousness and a Christ Consciousness,
I can’t somehow reconcile that statement in the Course that “consciousness is
an ego function”.

Jeshua: Beloved friend, that simply makes God the ultimate ego trip. [Audience
laughter]

First, reconciliation between forms of the universal curriculum is not always
possible, for reconciliation would require that each form of the universal
curriculum use the same terminology, and use terminology in the same way.
Remember always, that words are symbols of symbols, and therefore are twice
removed from Reality. Words are symbols of ideas, words can be used and must be
used in this dimension to direct the mind toward ideas which more clearly
reflect Reality, but ideas themselves are not Reality. Therefore, place value
on the Reality toward which ideas and words about ideas would direct you.

Love, for example, is a word. It is a symbol of an idea which is a reflection
of a Reality which is beyond form. For Reality is content. If you struggle to
reconcile the form of the universal curriculum - which I did in fact help to
give, called A Course in Miracles, with terminology that maybe utilized here or
elsewhere -, you have actually caused yourself to waste time. Time which could
be better spent in that which “love” is a symbol of. By being the Presence of
that which extends the good, the holy and the beautiful.

If it were not necessary to present the universal curriculum in a multitude of
forms, there would have only been one text ever written, and it would have
occurred several thousands and thousands of years ago, and no other form of
teaching would have ever arisen. But in the fragmentation of the One into the
many, levels of consciousness are created. Each mind can be reached through
certain vibrations which are words which represent ideas, and each mind has a
certain language which is all its own. Therefore, the wise teacher learns to
speak the language of the student, in order to convey or to communicate the
Truth.

When A Course in Miracles was given, it was given in the context of the
students. Hm? Therefore, the universal curriculum and its content were
structured into a form that could best serve the needs of the students. And
those that have resonated deeply with A Course in Miracles and gained great
insight and healing from it, are merely those who are in close resonance with
the minds of the students who first received it.

Likewise, I do not choose my channels wrongly, nor do I err at the structure of
language that is used through them. And why? Because although I participated in
the creation of A Course in Miracles as a teaching device, I’m well aware that
not everyone will receive that form, and because my desire is to join with my
brothers and sisters, I seek out modalities of communication that allow me to
reach out to more minds.

“Consciousness is a function of the ego.” Within the context of A Course in
Miracles this is perfectly consistent. Consciousness is a word which is related
to an idea that reflects something about Reality. Again, beloved friend,
whether with the Course or any other form of the curriculum, do not place as
much emphasis on the form, but rather on the content to which it would direct
you. The purpose of A Course in Miracles is to leave you in the Hands of your
Internal Teacher, your union with the Holy Spirit. In this sense then, your
curriculum begins where the teaching device of the Course leaves you. It is not
designed to answer every question a Teacher of God will have, for only your
Internal Teacher can do so. No form of the curriculum could ever hope to be
conclusive enough to satisfy an answer to every question. For this would place
the source of your guidance outside of you.

Therefore, simply relax the struggle to reconcile terminology, but rather learn
to feel - as you do very well - the content toward which it directs you, and
then live from that Reality. And the Holy Spirit will guide you and the use of
what terminology can convey the Truth to a brother or to a sister.

Does that help you in regard to that question?

Questioner: Mm, thank you very much.

Jeshua: Thank you very much.

